
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1133 Introduced in House (IH)]






109th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1133

To advance and strengthen democracy globally through peaceful means and 
     to assist foreign countries to implement democratic forms of 
  government, to strengthen respect for individual freedom, religious 
freedom, and human rights in foreign countries through increased United 
 States advocacy, to strengthen alliances of democratic countries, to 
    increase funding for programs of nongovernmental organizations, 
 individuals, and private groups that promote democracy, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 3, 2005

  Mr. Wolf (for himself, Mr. Lantos, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, and Mr. 
    Payne) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                  Committee on International Relations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To advance and strengthen democracy globally through peaceful means and 
     to assist foreign countries to implement democratic forms of 
  government, to strengthen respect for individual freedom, religious 
freedom, and human rights in foreign countries through increased United 
 States advocacy, to strengthen alliances of democratic countries, to 
    increase funding for programs of nongovernmental organizations, 
 individuals, and private groups that promote democracy, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Advance Democratic 
Values, Address Nondemocratic Countries, and Enhance Democracy Act of 
2005'' or the ``ADVANCE Democracy Act of 2005''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Statement of policy.
Sec. 4. Definitions.
                TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF STATE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 101. Promotion of democracy in foreign countries.
Sec. 102. Reports.
Sec. 103. Translation of annual Department of State reports.
Sec. 104. Strategies to enhance the promotion of democracy in foreign 
                            countries.
Sec. 105. Activities by the United States to promote democracy and 
                            human rights in foreign countries.
Sec. 106. Democracy Promotion and Human Rights Advisory Board.
Sec. 107. Establishment and maintenance of Internet site for global 
                            democracy and human rights.
Sec. 108. Programs by United States missions in foreign countries and 
                            activities of chiefs of mission.
Sec. 109. Training for Foreign Service officers.
Sec. 110. Performance pay; promotions; Foreign Service awards.
Sec. 111. Appointments.
          TITLE II--ALLIANCES WITH OTHER DEMOCRATIC COUNTRIES

Sec. 201. Alliances with other democratic countries.
Sec. 202. Sense of Congress regarding the establishment of a Democracy 
                            Caucus.
Sec. 203. Annual diplomatic missions on multilateral issues.
Sec. 204. Strengthening the Community of Democracies.
Sec. 205. Funding for nongovernmental organizations supporting a 
                            Community of Democracies.
Sec. 206. Reports.
             TITLE III--FUNDING FOR PROMOTION OF DEMOCRACY

Sec. 301. Policy.
Sec. 302. Human Rights and Democracy Fund.
         TITLE IV--SUPPORT FOR SPECIAL AND REGIONAL INITIATIVES

Sec. 401. Findings.
Sec. 402. Sense of Congress regarding support for regional initiatives.
                     TITLE V--PRESIDENTIAL ACTIONS

Sec. 501. Description of Presidential actions.
Sec. 502. Investigation of violations of international humanitarian 
                            law.
Sec. 503. Presidential communications.
                  TITLE VI--NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

Sec. 601. Special Assistant on Nondemocratic Countries.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) All human beings are created equal and possess certain 
        rights and freedoms, including the fundamental right to 
        participate in the political life and government of their 
        respective countries. These inalienable rights are recognized 
        in the Declaration of Independence of the United States and in 
        the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United 
        Nations.
            (2) Political legitimacy derives from the consent of the 
        governed, whether expressed directly or through representatives 
        chosen by free, fair, and open elections.
            (3) In his Inaugural Address and State of the Union 
        Address, President George W. Bush upheld the pursuit of freedom 
        as the driving ideal of the foreign policy of the United States 
        and made clear that the best way to defend freedom is to spread 
        liberty to the places where tyranny thrives, opportunity is 
        stifled, and terrorism grows.
            (4) The right to democracy was affirmed as a human right by 
        the United Nations Commission on Human Rights on April 27, 
        1999, by a vote of 50-0 with only two abstentions. The 
        resolution recognized that democracy is based on free, fair, 
        and open elections, a foundation of open and transparent civil 
        institutions, an independent judiciary, the rule of law, a free 
        press, the right of peaceful assembly, the freedom of religion, 
        and the right of every citizen to participate fully in the 
        political life of the citizen's country.
            (5) Over the past three decades, the number of fully 
        democratic countries has more than doubled to 89 from 41, while 
        the number of countries governed by a dictator or a 
        totalitarian government decreased by 37 percent, often as a 
        result of nonviolent resistance by the peoples of such 
        countries, aided by support from democratic countries.
            (6) According to the annual Freedom in the World report 
        published by Freedom House (an annual comparative assessment of 
        the state of political rights and civil liberties in 192 
        countries and 18 related and disputed territories), 75 percent 
        of the population of the world currently lives in countries 
        categorized as ``entirely free'' or ``partly free'', as opposed 
        to only 57 percent in 1973.
            (7) These changes have been achieved in part through 
        sustained and comprehensive efforts by democratic countries, 
        including the United States and the democratic countries of 
        Europe, to support dissidents and democracy activists in non-
        democratic countries.
            (8) The continued lack of democracy, freedom, and 
        fundamental human rights in some countries is inconsistent with 
        the universal values on which the United States is based, the 
        promotion of which comprises a fundamental element of United 
        States foreign policy.
            (9) The continued lack of democracy, freedom, and 
        fundamental human rights in some countries also poses a 
        security threat to the United States, its interests, and its 
        friends, as it is in such countries that radicalism, extremism, 
        and terrorism can flourish.
            (10) There is a correlation between nondemocratic rule and 
        other threats to international peace and security, including 
        war, genocide, famine, poverty, drug trafficking, corruption, 
        refugee flows, human trafficking, religious persecution, 
        environmental degradation, and discrimination against women.
            (11) Wars between or among democratic countries are 
        exceedingly rare, while wars between and among nondemocratic 
        countries are commonplace, with nearly 170,000,000 people 
        having lost their lives because of the policies of totalitarian 
        governments.
            (12) There is a strong correlation between nondemocratic 
        rule and famine.
            (13) Seventy-seven percent of refugees in the world come 
        from countries that lack electoral democracy.
            (14) In nondemocratic countries, women are often exposed to 
        particular hardships and a lack of opportunity, and trafficking 
        in women and children often flourishes.
            (15) There is a positive correlation between economic and 
        political freedom and preservation of the environment.
            (16) A world that fully reflects fundamental human and 
        political rights would be free of dictatorship. Such a world 
        would be profoundly safer and more just, peaceful, prosperous, 
        and stable. Countries that lack freedom and democracy 
        necessarily limit the full flourishing of human potential and, 
        as such, a goal of United States foreign policy is to promote 
        universal democracy.
            (17) The transition to democracy must be led from within 
        nondemocratic countries and by nationals of such countries who 
        live abroad. Nevertheless, democratic countries have a number 
        of instruments available for supporting democratic reformers 
        who are committed to promoting effective, nonviolent change in 
        nondemocratic countries.
            (18) United States efforts to promote democracy in 
        countries where it is lacking can be strengthened. A full 
        evaluation of United States funds expended for the support of 
        democracy is necessary to ensure an efficient and effective use 
        of such funds.
            (19) In 2002, Congress passed the Freedom Investment Act of 
        2002 (subtitle E of title VI of division A of the Foreign 
        Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003) to increase the 
        focus on promoting human rights and democracy as an element of 
        United States foreign policy.
            (20) United States ambassadors and diplomats can play a 
        critical role in the effort to promote democracy by publicly 
        demonstrating support for democratic principles, by discussing 
        democratic, social, and economic freedoms with citizens and 
        leaders of non-democratic countries, and by building 
        relationships with citizens that promote democratic principles, 
        practices, and values. United States missions in non-democratic 
        countries are potential ``islands of freedom'' in such 
        countries. Training and incentives are needed to assist United 
        States officials in strengthening the techniques and skills 
        required to promote democracy.
            (21) Nongovernmental organizations and private individuals 
        and movements also play a vital role in promoting democracy, 
        and the United States must expand its support of such 
        organizations, individuals, and movements.
            (22) The promotion of democracy requires a broad-based 
        effort with collaboration between all democratic countries. One 
        forum for advancing this effort is the Community of 
        Democracies, which first met in Warsaw, Poland, in June 2000, 
        and which is scheduled to meet in 2005 in Santiago, Chile.
            (23) The promotion of such universal democracy constitutes 
        a long-term challenge that does not always lead to an immediate 
        transition to full democracy, but universal democracy is 
        achievable.

SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It shall be the policy of the United States --
            (1) to promote freedom and democracy in foreign countries 
        as a fundamental component of United States foreign policy;
            (2) to affirm fundamental freedoms and human rights in 
        foreign countries and to condemn offenses against those 
        freedoms and rights as a fundamental component of United States 
        foreign policy;
            (3) to use all instruments of United States influence to 
        support, promote, and strengthen democratic principles, 
        practices, and values in foreign countries, including the right 
        to free, fair, and open elections, secret balloting, and 
        universal suffrage;
            (4) to protect and promote fundamental political, social, 
        and economic freedoms and rights, including the freedom of 
        association, of expression, of the press, and of religion, and 
        the right to own private property;
            (5) to protect and promote respect for and adherence to the 
        rule of law in foreign countries;
            (6) to provide appropriate support to organizations, 
        individuals, and movements located in nondemocratic countries 
        that aspire to live in freedom and establish full democracy in 
        such countries;
            (7) to provide, political, economic, and other support to 
        foreign countries that are willingly undertaking a transition 
        to democracy;
            (8) to commit United States foreign policy to the long-term 
        challenge of promoting universal democracy; and
            (9) to strengthen alliances and relationships with other 
        democratic countries in order to better promote and defend 
        shared values and ideals.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Annual report on democracy.--The term ``Annual Report 
        on Democracy'' means the Annual Report on Democracy required 
        under section 102(b).
            (2) Annual report on the status of democratic alliances of 
        the united states.--The term ``Annual Report on the Status of 
        Democratic Alliances of the United States'' means the Annual 
        Report on the Status of Democratic Alliances of the United 
        States required under section 206(a).
            (3) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on International Relations of the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate.
            (4) Community of democracies and community.--The terms 
        ``Community of Democracies'' and ``Community'' mean the 
        association of democratic countries committed to the global 
        promotion of democratic principles, practices, and values, 
        which held its First Ministerial Conference in Warsaw, Poland, 
        in June 2000.
            (5) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of State.
            (6) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means 
        any nongovernmental organization, international organization, 
        multilateral institution, private foundation, corporation, 
        partnership, association, or other entity, organization, or 
        group engaged in (or with plans to engage in) the promotion of 
        democracy and fundamental rights and freedoms in foreign 
        countries categorized as ``partly democratic'' or 
        ``nondemocratic'' in the most recent Annual Report on 
        Democracy.
            (7) Eligible individual.--The term ``eligible individual'' 
        means any individual engaged in, or who intends to engage in, 
        the promotion of democracy and fundamental rights and freedoms 
        in foreign countries categorized as ``partly democratic'' or 
        ``nondemocratic'' in the most recent Annual Report on 
        Democracy.
            (8) Helsinki process.--The term ``Helsinki Process'' means 
        the multilateral process adopted at the Conference on Security 
        and Cooperation in Europe by member countries of the 
        Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to achieve 
        the security, economic, and humanitarian goals as agreed to in 
        the Helsinki Final Act of 1975 of the Conference on Security 
        and Cooperation in Europe (1 August 1975), and as reinforced in 
        subsequent agreements, including the Vienna Concluding Document 
        of 1983 of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe 
        (15 January 1983), the Madrid Concluding Document of 1983 of 
        the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (6 
        September 1983), and the Copenhagen Document of 1990 on the 
        Human Dimension of the Conference on Security and Cooperation 
        in Europe (29 June 1990).
            (9) International financial institution.--The term 
        ``international financial institution'' means the International 
        Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International 
        Development Association, the International Monetary Fund, the 
        International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American 
        Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the African 
        Development Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank 
        for Reconstruction and Development, and the Multilateral 
        Investment Guarantee Agency.
            (10) Regional democracy hub and hub.--The terms ``Regional 
        Democracy Hub'' and ``Hub'' mean the Regional Democracy Hubs 
        established under section 101(d)(2).
            (11) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of State.
            (12) Special assistant.--The term ``Special Assistant'' 
        means the Special Assistant to the President on Nondemocratic 
        Countries established under subsection (l) of section 101 of 
        the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 402), as added by 
        section 601 of this Act.
            (13) Under secretary.--The term ``Under Secretary'' means 
        the Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs established 
        under section 1(b) of the State Department Basic Authorities 
        Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a(b)), as amended by section 
        101(a)(2) of this Act.

                TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF STATE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 101. PROMOTION OF DEMOCRACY IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

    (a) Codification of Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs.--
Section 1(b) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2651a(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(4) Under secretary of state for global affairs.--There 
        shall be in the Department of State, among the Under 
        Secretaries authorized by paragraph (1), an Under Secretary of 
        State for Global Affairs, who shall have primary responsibility 
        to assist the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary in the 
        formulation and implementation of United States policies and 
        activities relating to the transition to and development of 
        democracy in nondemocratic countries and to coordinate United 
        States policy on global issues, including issues related to 
        human rights, women's rights, freedom of religion, labor 
        standards and relations, the preservation of the global 
        environment, the status and protection of the oceans, 
        scientific cooperation, narcotics control, law enforcement, 
        population issues, refugees, migration, war crimes, and 
        trafficking in persons. The Secretary may assign such other 
        responsibilities to the Under Secretary for Global Affairs as 
        the Secretary determines appropriate or necessary. In 
        particular, the Under Secretary for Global Affairs shall have 
        the following responsibilities:
                    ``(A) Promoting democracy and fundamental rights 
                and freedoms in foreign countries, condemning 
                violations of the right of an individual to participate 
                in the government and political life of the country of 
                the individual, either directly or through 
                representatives chosen in free, fair, and open 
                elections, and recommending appropriate actions to be 
                undertaken by the United States whenever such right is 
                violated or is in danger of being violated.
                    ``(B) Coordinating with the Under Secretary for 
                Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs and employees and 
                officers from the regional bureaus of the Department of 
                State to--
                            ``(i) promote the transition to and 
                        development of democracy in nondemocratic 
                        countries; and
                            ``(ii) promote and strengthen the 
                        development of democracy in countries that are 
                        in transition to democracy.
                    ``(C) Developing, in consultation with other 
                appropriate executive agencies having programs and 
                responsibilities related to democracy promotion, a 
                strategic plan to promote transition to and development 
                of democracy in nondemocratic countries and overseeing 
                implementation of the plan through an appropriate 
                interagency process.
                    ``(D) Advising the Secretary regarding any 
                recommendation requested by any official of any other 
                agency that relates to the human rights situation in a 
                foreign country or the effects on human rights or 
                democracy in a foreign country of an agency program of 
                such official.
                    ``(E) Assisting the Secretary in the preparation of 
                the reports required under section 102 of the Advance 
                Democratic Values, Address Nondemocratic Countries, and 
                Enhance Democracy Act of 2005.''.
    (b) Additional Duties for Assistant Secretary of State for 
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor.--Section 1(c)(2) of the State 
Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a(c)(2)) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting after the first 
        sentence the following new sentence: ``The Assistant Secretary 
        of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor shall also be 
        responsible to the Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs 
        for matters relating to the transition to and development of 
        democracy in nondemocratic countries, including promoting and 
        strengthening the development of democracy in foreign countries 
        that are in the early stages of a transition to democracy.'';
            (2) by adding after subparagraph (B) the following new 
        subparagraph:
            ``(C) The Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human 
        Rights, and Labor shall maintain continuous observation of and 
        review all matters pertaining to the transition to and 
        promotion and development of democracy in foreign countries. In 
        particular, the Assistant Secretary shall have the following 
        responsibilities:
                    ``(i) Assisting the Under Secretary of State for 
                Global Affairs in the preparation of the reports 
                required under section 102 of the Advance Democratic 
                Values, Address Non-Democratic Countries, and Enhance 
                Democracy Act of 2005.
                    ``(ii) Making recommendations to the Under 
                Secretary of State for Global Affairs regarding the 
                promotion of democracy in foreign countries, including 
                assisting the Under Secretary to--
                            ``(I) promote transition to and development 
                        of democracy in nondemocratic countries;
                            ``(II) promote and strengthen the 
                        development of democracy in foreign countries 
                        that are in the early stages of a transition to 
                        democracy; and
                            ``(III) support and promote the academic 
                        and intellectual study and discussion of 
                        democracy in democratic, partly democratic, and 
                        nondemocratic countries.
                    ``(iii) Gathering detailed information that 
                furthers--
                            ``(I) the identification of foreign 
                        countries that are democracies, the extent to 
                        which democracy is established in such 
                        countries, and the extent to which such 
                        countries are committed to promoting democratic 
                        principles, practices, and values;
                            ``(II) the understanding of the most 
                        effective means of change and methods of 
                        nonviolent action to promote and achieve 
                        transition to democracy in a foreign country;
                            ``(III) the identification of and 
                        consultation with nongovernmental 
                        organizations, individuals, and movements that 
                        promote democratic principles, practices, and 
                        values in partly democratic and nondemocratic 
                        countries to obtain the views of such 
                        organizations, individuals, and movements on 
                        the approaches that the United States should 
                        take to promote the transition of the 
                        governments of such countries to full 
                        democracies; and
                            ``(IV) the documentation of human rights 
                        abuses condoned or encouraged by leaders of 
                        nondemocratic countries, including an 
                        identification of such leaders.
                    ``(iv) Consulting with nongovernmental 
                organizations, individuals, and movements committed to 
                the peaceful promotion of democracy, democratic 
                principles, practices and values, and fundamental 
                rights and freedoms.
                    ``(v) Coordinating United States Government 
                assistance to promote democracy abroad, including 
                designing and coordinating an overall assistance 
                strategy, pursuing coordination with other countries 
                and international organizations, ensuring proper 
                management, implementation, and oversight by United 
                States agencies, and resolving policy and program 
                disputes among such agencies.
                    ``(vi) Performing such other responsibilities which 
                serve to promote and develop democracy in foreign 
                countries.''.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise authorized, there is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of State $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2006, and such sums as 
may be necessary in each fiscal year thereafter, for the hiring of 
staff and the conduct of the business of the offices of the Under 
Secretary of State for Global Affairs and the Assistant Secretary of 
State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor.
    (d) Department of State and United States Missions Abroad.--
            (1) Office of democratic movements and transitions.--
                    (A) Establishment.--There is established within the 
                Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor of the 
                Department of State an Office of Democratic Movements 
                and Transitions.
                    (B) Purpose.--The Office shall promote transitions 
                to full democracy in countries that have been 
                designated as nondemocratic or partly democratic in the 
                most recent Annual Report on Democracy required under 
                section 102(b).
                    (C) Director.--The Secretary of State, after 
                consultation with the Assistant Secretary of State for 
                Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, shall appoint a 
                Director to head the Office, who shall report to the 
                Assistant Secretary. The individual chosen as Director 
                should possess clearly demonstrated competence in and 
                commitment to the promotion of democracy, including 
                competence in promoting democratic principles, 
                practices, values, and ideals through nonviolent means.
                    (D) Responsibilities.--The Director of the Office 
                shall--
                            (i) develop relations with, consult with, 
                        and provide assistance to nongovernmental 
                        organizations, individuals, and movements that 
                        are committed to the peaceful promotion of 
                        democracy, democratic principles, practices, 
                        and values, and fundamental rights and freedoms 
                        in countries described in subparagraph (B);
                            (ii) develop strategies and programs to 
                        promote peaceful change in such countries;
                            (iii) provide political, financial, and 
                        other support to nongovernmental organizations, 
                        individuals, and movements that promote 
                        democratic principles, practices, and values in 
                        such countries, including providing training in 
                        the strategy and tactics of nonviolent change 
                        and providing training equipment related to 
                        such purpose;
                            (iv) foster relationships between 
                        nongovernmental organizations, individuals, and 
                        movements and the United States and the 
                        governments of other democratic countries, and 
                        establish common positions with other 
                        democratic countries and the Community of 
                        Democracies to promote democratic transitions 
                        in countries described in subparagraph (B);
                            (v) foster dialogue, the extent 
                        practicable, between the leaders of such 
                        nongovernmental organizations, individuals, and 
                        movements and the officials of such countries;
                            (vi) evaluate recommendations by the 
                        Democracy Promotion Advisory Board, established 
                        under section 106, regarding strategies to 
                        promote democracy in such countries;
                            (vii) communicate with the leaders and 
                        other senior government officials of such 
                        countries concerning respect for liberty, 
                        democracy, and political, social, and economic 
                        freedoms;
                            (viii) communicate with opposition 
                        political parties within such countries that 
                        support democratic values and respect for human 
                        rights;
                            (ix) create narratives and histories 
                        required under section 107(b) for the Internet 
                        site for global democracy and human rights and 
                        assist in the preparation of the report 
                        required under section 102; and
                            (x) facilitate, in coordination with public 
                        affairs officers and offices of the Department 
                        of State responsible for public diplomacy 
                        programs in such countries, debates and 
                        discussions, including among young people in 
                        other countries, regarding the values and 
                        benefits of democracy and human rights at 
                        academic institutions in such countries.
            (2) Regional democracy hubs at united states missions 
        abroad.--
                    (A) Establishment.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary shall 
                        establish at least one Regional Democracy Hub 
                        at one United States mission in each of the 
                        following geographic regions:
                                    (I) the Western Hemisphere;
                                    (II) Europe;
                                    (III) South Asia;
                                    (IV) the Near East;
                                    (V) East Asia and the Pacific; and
                                    (VI) Africa.
                            (ii) Director.--Each Regional Democracy Hub 
                        shall be headed by a Director. The Director and 
                        the associated staff shall be selected by the 
                        Secretary of State in consultation with the 
                        Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human 
                        Rights, and Labor.
                    (B) Responsibilities.--Each Regional Democracy Hub 
                shall support the appropriate United States ambassador 
                and United States employees assigned to United States 
                missions in each such geographic region to carry out 
                the responsibilities described in this Act, including--
                            (i) assisting the Assistant Secretary for 
                        Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor and the 
                        Under Secretary for Global Affairs to conceive 
                        and implement strategies for transitions to 
                        democracy for each nondemocratic country in the 
                        geographic region for which such Hub is 
                        responsible, including regional strategies as 
                        appropriate, and assisting such United States 
                        missions to prepare the reports required under 
                        section 102;
                            (ii) helping to design and implement 
                        programs funded by the Human Rights and 
                        Democracy Fund described in section 302, 
                        including making proposals directly to the 
                        Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human 
                        Rights, and Labor regarding the use of the 
                        Fund; and
                            (iii) supporting the implementation of 
                        other requirements of this Act, including 
                        identifying opportunities for United States 
                        officials to speak directly to citizens, 
                        particularly to young people, in such 
                        countries.
                    (C) Accreditation.--As appropriate, the Department 
                shall seek accreditation for the Director to all 
                nondemocratic countries in each geographic region for 
                which each Hub is responsible.
                    (D) Termination.--No earlier than two years after a 
                geographic region has ceased to include any 
                nondemocratic or partly democratic country, the 
                Secretary may terminate the Hub for such region.
                    (E) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
                authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such 
                sums as may be necessary to carry out the 
                responsibilities described in subparagraph (B), 
                including hiring additional staff to carry out such 
                responsibilities.
            (3) Responsibilities of the bureau of intelligence and 
        research.--The Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and 
        Research shall coordinate with the Department of the Treasury, 
        the Department of Justice, the Central Intelligence Agency, 
        other appropriate intelligence agencies, and, as appropriate, 
        with foreign governments to--
                    (A) monitor and document financial assets inside 
                and outside the United States held by leaders of 
                countries determined to be nondemocratic under section 
                102;
                    (B) identify close associates of such leaders; and
                    (C) monitor and document financial assets inside 
                and outside the United States held by such close 
                associates.
            (4) Coordination.--
                    (A) Deputy assistant secretary of state for 
                democracy, human rights, and labor.--There shall be in 
                the Department of State a Deputy Assistant Secretary of 
                State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor who shall 
                report to the Assistant Secretary of State for 
                Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor. Such Deputy 
                Assistant Secretary shall be in addition to the current 
                number of such other Deputy Assistant Secretaries so 
                reporting. In addition to considering qualified 
                noncareer candidates, the Secretary of State shall seek 
                to recruit senior members of the Senior Foreign Service 
                to serve in such position.
                    (B) Responsibilities.--In addition to such other 
                duties as the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of State 
                for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor may from time to 
                time designate, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State 
                for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor shall--
                            (i) coordinate the work of the Office of 
                        Democratic Movements and Transitions with the 
                        work of other offices and bureaus at the 
                        Department of State;
                            (ii) coordinate the work of the Office of 
                        Democratic Movements and Transitions with the 
                        work of other United States Government 
                        agencies;
                            (iii) forge connections between the United 
                        States and nongovernmental organizations, 
                        individuals, and movements committed to the 
                        promotion of democracy and democratic 
                        principles, practices, and values; and
                            (iv) seek ways to promote and enhance the 
                        work of nongovernmental organizations, 
                        individuals, and movements committed to the 
                        promotion of democracy and democratic 
                        principles, practices, and values.
            (5) Recruitment.--The Secretary shall seek to ensure that 
        no later than December 31, 2012, not less than 50 percent of 
        the nonadministrative employees serving in the Bureau of 
        Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor are members of the Foreign 
        Service.

SEC. 102. REPORTS.

    (a) Portions of Annual Human Rights Reports.--The Under Secretary 
of State for Global Affairs shall assist the Secretary of State in the 
preparation of those portions of the reports and other information 
provided to Congress required under sections 116 and 502B of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151n and 2304) that relate 
to freedom and political rights as set forth in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights.
    (b) Annual Report on Democracy.--
            (1) Preparation and deadline for submission.--The Secretary 
        of State shall prepare an Annual Report on Democracy. The Under 
        Secretary of State for Global Affairs, with the assistance of 
        the Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, 
        and Labor, shall have the principal responsibility of assisting 
        the Secretary in the preparation of the Annual Report. The 
        Under Secretary and Assistant Secretary shall consult with the 
        regional bureaus of the Department of State in the preparation 
        of the Annual Report. Not later than July 1 of each year, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees the Annual Report on Democracy.
            (2) Contents.--The Annual Report on Democracy shall contain 
        the following:
                    (A) Executive summary.--An Executive Summary with a 
                table listing every foreign country, together with a 
                categorization of each country as ``fully democratic'', 
                ``partly democratic'', or ``nondemocratic''. The 
                Executive Summary shall contain a short narrative 
                highlighting the status of democracy in each country 
                categorized as partly democratic or nondemocratic.
                            (i) Determination of categorization.--With 
                        respect to a country listed in the Executive 
                        Summary, the Secretary shall determine which of 
                        the categorizations specified under 
                        subparagraph (A) is appropriate by reference to 
                        the principles enshrined in the United Nations 
                        Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human 
                        Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and 
                        Political Rights, the United Nations Commission 
                        on Human Rights Resolution 1499/57 (entitled 
                        ``Promotion of the Right to Democracy''), the 
                        assessments used to determine eligibility for 
                        financial assistance disbursed from the 
                        Millennium Challenge Account, the assessments 
                        of nongovernmental organizations used to 
                        determine eligibility to participate in the 
                        meetings of the Community of Democracies, and 
                        the standards established and adopted by the 
                        Community of Democracies. In addition, the 
                        categorization of a country should be informed 
                        by the general consensus regarding the status 
                        of civil and political rights in such country 
                        by major nongovernmental organizations that 
                        conduct assessments of such conditions in such 
                        countries.
                            (ii) Determination of nondemocratic 
                        categorization.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Secretary 
                                shall categorize a country as 
                                nondemocratic if such country fails to 
                                satisfy any of the following 
                                requirements:
                                            (aa) All citizens of such 
                                        county have the right to, and 
                                        are not restricted in practice 
                                        from, fully and freely 
                                        participating in the political 
                                        life of such country regardless 
                                        of gender, race, language, 
                                        religion, or beliefs.
                                            (bb) The national 
                                        legislative body of such 
                                        country and, if directly 
                                        elected, the head of government 
                                        of such country, are chosen by 
                                        free, fair, open, and periodic 
                                        elections, by universal and 
                                        equal suffrage, and by secret 
                                        ballot.
                                            (cc) More than one 
                                        political party in such country 
                                        has candidates who seek elected 
                                        office at the national level 
                                        and such parties are not 
                                        restricted in their political 
                                        activities or their process for 
                                        selecting such candidates 
                                        except for reasonable 
                                        administrative requirements 
                                        commonly applied in countries 
                                        categorized as fully 
                                        democratic.
                                            (dd) All citizens in such 
                                        country have a right to, and 
                                        are not restricted in practice 
                                        from, fully exercising the 
                                        freedoms of thought, 
                                        conscience, belief, peaceful 
                                        assembly and association, 
                                        speech, opinion, and 
                                        expression, and such country 
                                        has a free, independent, and 
                                        pluralistic media.
                                            (ee) The current government 
                                        of such country did not come to 
                                        power in a manner contrary to 
                                        the rule of law.
                                            (ff) Such country possesses 
                                        an independent judiciary and 
                                        the government of such country 
                                        generally respects the rule of 
                                        law.
                                    (II) Additional considerations.--
                                Notwithstanding the satisfaction by a 
                                country of the requirements specified 
                                under subclause (I), the Secretary may 
                                categorize a country as nondemocratic 
                                if the Secretary determines that such 
                                is appropriate after consideration of 
                                the principles specified under clause 
                                (i) with respect to such country.
                    (B) Status of democracy.--A description of each 
                country categorized as partly democratic or 
                nondemocratic in the Executive Summary, including--
                            (i) an evaluation of trends over the 
                        preceding 12 months towards improvement or 
                        deterioration in the commitment to and 
                        protection of democratic principles, practices, 
                        values, institutions, and processes in each 
                        such country;
                            (ii) an evaluation of the political rights 
                        and freedoms enjoyed by individuals in each 
                        such country and an evaluation of the factors 
                        that prevent each such country from being 
                        categorized as fully democratic; and
                            (iii) for each country previously 
                        categorized as nondemocratic in the Executive 
                        Summary from the preceding year, an evaluation 
                        of any progress made over the previous calendar 
                        year towards achieving a categorization of 
                        partly democratic or fully democratic.
                    (C) Strategy for nondemocratic countries.--An in-
                depth examination of each country categorized as 
                nondemocratic in the Executive Summary, including--
                            (i) a specific action plan developed 
                        following consultations with nongovernmental 
                        organizations, individuals, and movements that 
                        promote democratic principles, practices, and 
                        values in each such country to promote and 
                        achieve transition to full democracy in each 
                        such country, including a summary of actions 
                        taken by the United States in furtherance of 
                        such goal in the preceding 12 months;
                            (ii) a summary of any actions taken by the 
                        President pursuant to section 501 with respect 
                        to any such country, the effects of any such 
                        actions, and if no such actions have been 
                        taken, a statement explaining why not;
                            (iii) a summary of any actions taken by the 
                        chief of mission and officials of the United 
                        States in each such country with which the 
                        United States maintains diplomatic and consular 
                        posts with respect to promoting such a 
                        transition within that country and any 
                        activities of the embassy or consulate in that 
                        country to support individuals and 
                        organizations in that country that actively 
                        advocate for such a transition;
                            (iv) a summary of efforts taken by 
                        officials of the United States to speak 
                        directly to the people in each country, and in 
                        particular, a description of any visits taken 
                        by the chief of mission and other officials of 
                        the United States in each such country to the 
                        colleges and universities and other 
                        institutions in the country where young people 
                        congregate and learn; and
                            (v) a summary of any communications between 
                        United States Government officials, including 
                        the chief of mission, and the leader and other 
                        high government officials of each such country 
                        concerning respect for liberty, democracy, and 
                        political, social, and economic freedoms.
                    (D) United states policies.--A description of 
                United States actions and policies aimed at promoting 
                democracy in foreign countries categorized as partly 
                democratic or nondemocratic, and the extent to which 
                such actions and policies were undertaken in 
                coordination with other democratic countries.
                    (E) Peaceful transfers of political power.--A 
                description of peaceful transfers of political power in 
                each country categorized as partly democratic or 
                nondemocratic in the Executive Summary that have 
                occurred between rival political entities according to 
                established rules and without violence.
            (3) Classified addendum.--If the Secretary determines that 
        it is in the national security interests of the United States, 
        is necessary for the safety of individuals identified in the 
        Annual Report on Democracy, or is necessary to further the 
        purposes of this Act, any information required by paragraph 
        (2), including policies adopted or actions taken by the United 
        States, may be summarized in the Annual Report on Democracy or 
        the Executive Summary and submitted to the appropriate 
        congressional committees in more detail in a classified 
        addendum.
            (4) Public disclosure.--The Executive Summary shall be made 
        available on the Department of State Internet site, except for 
        information that is classified under paragraph (3).
    (c) One-Time Report on Training and Guidelines for Foreign Service 
Officers and Chiefs of Mission.--The Secretary of State, in 
consultation with the Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs, 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a one-time 
report containing a description of the training provided under section 
109 for foreign service officers, including chiefs of mission serving 
or preparing to serve in countries categorized as partly democratic or 
nondemocratic or chiefs of mission in fully democratic countries whose 
job performance could benefit from such training, with respect to 
methods to promote and achieve transition to full democracy in each 
such country, including nonviolent action. The Secretary shall submit 
the report together with the first Annual Report on Democracy required 
under subsection (b).

SEC. 103. TRANSLATION OF ANNUAL DEPARTMENT OF STATE REPORTS.

    (a) Translation.--The Secretary of State shall ensure that the 
relevant country specific sections of the reports listed in subsection 
(b) that relate to a particular country are translated into the 
principal languages of such country and made available in such country.
    (b) Reports.--The relevant country specific sections of the reports 
referred to in subsection (a) are the following:
            (1) Country specific sections of the most recent Annual 
        Report on Democracy.
            (2) Country specific sections of the most recent annual 
        Trafficking in Persons Report prepared by the Office to Monitor 
        and Combat Trafficking in Persons of the Department of State.
            (3) Country specific sections of the most recent Annual 
        Report on International Religious Freedom prepared by the 
        Office of International Religious Freedom in the Bureau of 
        Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor of the Department of State.
            (4) Country specific sections of the most recent annual 
        Country Reports on Human Rights Practices prepared by the 
        Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor of the Department 
        of State.
    (c) Date for Completion.--Not later than 120 days after the 
completion of each report described in subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall ensure the translation of each such report.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to amounts that 
are otherwise available for the translation of Department of State 
reports, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such 
sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 104. STRATEGIES TO ENHANCE THE PROMOTION OF DEMOCRACY IN FOREIGN 
              COUNTRIES.

    (a) Working Group on Nondemocratic Countries.--Beginning in the 
year after the second Annual Report on Democracy required under section 
102(b) is submitted and not less than once each year thereafter, the 
Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs shall convene a working 
group under subsection (c) focused on each country designated as 
nondemocratic in the most recent such report in order to--
            (1) review progress on the action plan with respect to each 
        such country to promote and achieve the transition to full 
        democracy in such country; and
            (2) receive recommendations regarding further action that 
        should be taken with respect to such plan.
    (b) Working Group on Countries in Transition.--Beginning in the 
year after the second Annual Report on Democracy required under section 
102(b) is submitted and not less than once each year thereafter, the 
Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs should also convene a 
working group under subsection (c) focused on the progress towards a 
fully democratic form of governance in each country designated as 
``partly democratic'' in the most recent annual report that was 
designated as ``nondemocratic'' in any of the previous annual reports.
    (c) Members of Working Groups.--The working groups referred to in 
subsections (a) and (b) shall include officers and employees of the 
Department of State and appropriate representatives from other relevant 
government agencies, including the United States Agency for 
International Development, the Department of the Treasury, and the 
Department of Defense.
    (d) Consultations With Chiefs of Missions.--The chief of mission 
for each country designated as nondemocratic or partly democratic in 
the most recent Annual Report on Democracy shall meet with the Under 
Secretary of State for Global Affairs at least once each year to 
discuss the transition to full democracy in such country, including any 
actions the chief of mission has taken to implement the action plan for 
such country included in such report.

SEC. 105. ACTIVITIES BY THE UNITED STATES TO PROMOTE DEMOCRACY AND 
              HUMAN RIGHTS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

    (a) Freedom Investment Act of 2002.--The Freedom Investment Act of 
2002 (subtitle E of title VI of Public Law 107-228) is amended--
            (1) in Section 663(a), (relating to human rights activities 
        at the Department of State)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
                (4);
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraphs:
            ``(2) a United States mission abroad in a country that has 
        been designated as nondemocratic in the most recent Annual 
        Report on Democracy (as required under section 102(b) of the 
        Advance Democratic Values, Address Nondemocratic Countries, and 
        Enhance Democracy Act of 2005) should have at least one 
        political officer who shall have primary responsibility for 
        monitoring and promoting democracy and human rights in such 
        country;
            ``(3) the level of seniority of any such political officer 
        should be in direct relationship to the severity of the 
        problems associated with the establishment of full democracy 
        and respect for human rights in such country; and''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (4), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``monitoring human rights developments'' and 
                all that follows through ``recommendation'' and 
                inserting the following: ``monitoring and promoting 
                democracy and human rights, including a political 
                officer described in paragraphs (2) and (3), in a 
                foreign country should be made after consultation with 
                and upon the recommendation''; and
            (2) in Section 665(c) (relating to reports on actions taken 
        by the United States to encourage respect for human rights), by 
        striking the second sentence and inserting adding at the end 
        the following new sentences: ``If the Secretary elects to 
        submit such information as a separate report, such report may 
        be submitted as part of the Annual Report on Democracy required 
        under section 102(b) of the Advance Democratic Values, Address 
        Nondemocratic Countries, and Enhance Democracy Act of 2005. If 
        the Secretary makes such an election, such report shall be 
        organized so as to contain a separate section for each country 
        to which such information applies, together with a short 
        narrative describing the extrajudicial killing, torture, or 
        other serious violations of human rights that are indicated to 
        have occurred in each such country.''.
    (b) Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.--The Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 116(d) (22 U.S.C. 2151n(d)), by striking 
        paragraph 10 and inserting the following new paragraph:
            ``(10) for each country with respect to which the report 
        indicates that extrajudicial killings, torture, or other 
        serious violations of human rights have occurred in the 
        country, a strategy, including a specific list of priorities 
        and an action plan, to end such practices in the country, and 
        any actions taken in the previous year to end such practices in 
        the country.''; and
            (2) in section 502B(b) (22 U.S.C. 2304(b)), by striking the 
        sixth sentence and inserting the following new sentence: ``Such 
        report shall also include, for each country with respect to 
        which the report indicates that extrajudicial killings, 
        torture, or other serious violations of human rights have 
        occurred in the country, a strategy, including a specific list 
        of priorities and an action plan, to end such practices in the 
        country, and any actions taken in the previous year to end such 
        practices in the country.''.

SEC. 106. DEMOCRACY PROMOTION AND HUMAN RIGHTS ADVISORY BOARD.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a Democracy Promotion and 
Human Rights Advisory Board.
    (b) Purpose and Duties.--The Board shall advise and provide 
recommendations to the Secretary of State, the Under Secretary of State 
for Global Affairs, the Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, 
Human Rights, and Labor, and the Assistant Administrator for the Bureau 
of Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance of the United States 
Agency for International Development concerning United States policies 
regarding the promotion of democracy and the establishment of universal 
democracy, including the following:
            (1) Reviewing and making recommendations regarding the 
        overall United States strategy for promoting democracy and 
        human rights in partly democratic and nondemocratic countries, 
        including methods for incorporating the promotion of democracy 
        and human rights into United States diplomacy, the use of 
        international organizations to further United States democracy 
        promotion goals, and ways in which the United States can work 
        with other countries and the Community of Democracies to 
        further such purposes.
            (2) Recommendations regarding specific strategies to 
        promote democracy in countries categorized as nondemocratic in 
        the most recent Annual Report on Democracy under section 
        102(b), in countries that are in a transition to democracy, and 
        methods for consulting and coordinating with individuals 
        (including expatriates) and nongovernmental organizations that 
        promote democratic principles, practices, and ideals.
            (3) Recommendations regarding the use of--
                    (A) programs related to the promotion of democracy 
                and human rights administered by the United States 
                Agency for International Development; and
                    (B) the Human Rights and Democracy Fund, 
                established under section 664 of the Freedom Investment 
                Act of 2002 (subtitle E of title VI of Public Law 107-
                228).
            (4) Recommendations regarding regulations to be promulgated 
        concerning--
                    (A) the standards of performance to be met by 
                members of the Foreign Service, including chiefs of 
                mission, under section 405(d) of the Foreign Service 
                Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3965(d)); and
                    (B) the development of programs to promote 
                democracy in foreign countries under section 108, 
                relating to programs undertaken by United States 
                missions in foreign countries and the activities of 
                chiefs of mission.
    (c) Study on Democracy Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the 
        appointment of five members of the Board, the Board shall 
        submit to the President, Congress, and the Secretary a study on 
        United States democracy assistance.
            (2) Transmittal.--Copies of the report shall be transmitted 
        to the Under Secretary of State for Global Democracy, the 
        Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and 
        Labor, the Broadcasting Board of Governors, the Administrator 
        of the United States Agency for International Development, the 
        President of the National Endowment for Democracy, the 
        President of the Center for International Private Enterprise, 
        the President of the International Republican Institute, the 
        President of the National Democratic Institute for 
        International Affairs, and the President of the Free Trade 
        Union Institute.
            (3) Contents.--The study shall include--
                    (A) a comprehensive review and an overall 
                evaluation of the efficiency and effectiveness of 
                United States appropriations for the promotion of 
                democracy, including--
                            (i) information regarding the amount of 
                        money dedicated to such purpose each fiscal 
                        year;
                            (ii) an identification of the international 
                        organizations, nongovernmental organizations, 
                        multilateral institutions, individuals, private 
                        groups (including corporations and other 
                        businesses), and government agencies and 
                        departments receiving such funds for such 
                        purpose;
                            (iii) information regarding the efficiency 
                        and effectiveness of the use of such funds to 
                        promote a transition to democracy in 
                        nondemocratic countries with a special emphasis 
                        on activities related to the promotion of 
                        democracy under section 302(b), relating to the 
                        Human Rights and Democracy Fund; and
                            (iv) information regarding the efficiency 
                        and effectiveness of the use of such funds to 
                        promote and sustain democracy in countries that 
                        are already fully democratic or partly 
                        democratic;
                    (B) a review of--
                            (i) the ability of the Broadcasting Board 
                        of Governors to provide 24-hour service seven 
                        days a week to all countries categorized as 
                        nondemocratic in the most recent Annual Report 
                        on Democracy and the influence such broadcasts 
                        may have on the views of citizens of such 
                        countries, including information relating to 
                        programming on the means of nonviolent protest 
                        and successful movements for democratic change 
                        in other countries around the world; and
                            (ii) the advisability of supporting private 
                        media sources that are not controlled or owned 
                        by the United States, including by providing 
                        grants, loans, or loan guarantees and by 
                        establishing a new entity that would manage 
                        such a program to promote a wider range of view 
                        that have no connection to the United States;
                    (C) policy recommendations to the President and 
                Congress regarding ways to improve United States 
                programs for the promotion of democracy; and
                    (D) recommendations for reform of United States 
                Government agencies involved in the promotion of 
                democracy.
    (d) Membership.--
            (1) Appointment.--The Board shall be composed of nine 
        members, who shall be citizens of the United States and who 
        shall not be officers or employees of the United States. The 
        members shall be appointed as follows:
                    (A) Three members shall be appointed by the 
                President.
                    (B) Three members shall be appointed by the Speaker 
                of the House of Representatives, of whom two members 
                shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the 
                leader in the House of the political party that is not 
                the political party of the President, and of whom one 
                member shall be appointed upon the recommendation of 
                the leader in the House of the other political party.
                    (C) Three members shall be appointed by the 
                President pro tempore of the Senate, of whom two 
                members shall be appointed upon the recommendation of 
                the leader in the Senate of the political party that is 
                not the political party of the President, of whom one 
                member shall be appointed upon the recommendation of 
                the leader in the Senate of the other party.
            (2) Selection and vacancies.--Members of the Board shall be 
        selected from among distinguished individuals noted for their 
        knowledge and experience in fields relevant to the issues to be 
        considered by the Board, including issues related to the 
        promotion of democracy, international relations, management and 
        organization of foreign assistance or comparable programs, 
        methods and means of nonviolent protest, academic study and 
        debate of democracy, human rights, and international law. A 
        vacancy on the Board shall not affect its powers, but shall be 
        filled in the manner in which the original appointment was 
        made.
            (3) Time for appointment.--The appointment of members to 
        the Board under paragraph (1) shall be made not later than 120 
        days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (4) Term of service and sunset.--Each member shall be 
        appointed to the Board for a term that shall expire on the date 
        that is one year after the date of the submission of the report 
        under subsection (c). The Board shall terminate on the date 
        that is one year after the date of the submission of the report 
        under such subsection.
            (5) Security clearances.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
        all members of the Board, and appropriate experts and 
        consultants under paragraph (6)(H), obtain relevant security 
        clearances in an expeditious manner.
            (6) Operation.--
                    (A) Chairperson.--Not later than 15 days after the 
                completion of the appointment of all members to the 
                Board under paragraph (1), the President shall appoint 
                a chairperson for the Board from among the members.
                    (B) Meetings.--The Board shall meet at the call of 
                the chairperson. The initial meeting of the Board shall 
                be held not later than 30 days after the appointment of 
                the chairperson under subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Board 
                shall constitute a quorum to conduct business, but the 
                Board may establish a lesser quorum for conducting 
                meetings scheduled by the Board.
                    (D) Rules.--The Board may establish by majority 
                vote any other rules for the operation of the Board 
                under this paragraph, if such rules are not 
                inconsistent with this Act or other applicable law.
                    (E) Travel expenses.--Members of the Board shall be 
                allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
                subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of 
                agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, 
                United States Code, while away from their homes or 
                regular places of business in the performance of 
                service for the Board.
                    (F) Office space and administrative assistance.--
                Upon the request of the chairperson of the Board, the 
                Secretary shall provide reasonable and appropriate 
                office space, supplies, and administrative assistance.
                    (G) Applicability of certain other laws.--Nothing 
                in this section shall be construed to cause the Board 
                to be considered an agency or establishment of the 
                United States, or to cause members of the Board to be 
                considered officers or employees of the United States. 
                Executive branch agencies may conduct programs and 
                activities and provide services in support of the 
                activities duties of the Board, notwithstanding any 
                other provision of law. The Federal Advisory Committee 
                Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Board.
                    (H) Experts and consultants.--The Board may procure 
                temporary and intermittent services under section 
                3109(b) of title 5, United States Code.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Board $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006, 
2007, and 2008.

SEC. 107. ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF INTERNET SITE FOR GLOBAL 
              DEMOCRACY AND HUMAN RIGHTS.

    (a) Establishment.--In order to facilitate access by individuals 
and nongovernmental organizations in foreign countries to documents, 
streaming video and audio, and other media regarding democratic 
principles, practices, and values, and the promotion and strengthening 
of democracy, the Secretary of State, in cooperation with the Under 
Secretary of State for Global Affairs, the Under Secretary for Public 
Diplomacy and Public Affairs, and the Assistant Secretary of State for 
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, shall establish and maintain an 
Internet site for global democracy and human rights.
    (b) Contents.--The Internet site for global democracy established 
under subsection (a) shall contain the following information:
            (1) The Executive Summary prepared under section 
        102(b)(2)(A), but only to the extent that information contained 
        therein is not classified.
            (2) The texts of the founding documents of the United 
        States, including the Declaration of Independence, the 
        Constitution, appropriate excerpts from the Federalist Papers, 
        and other documents that the Under Secretary of State for 
        Global Affairs determines appropriate.
            (3) Selected texts of the founding documents of the leading 
        democratic countries that the Under Secretary determines 
        appropriate.
            (4) Narratives and histories of significant democratic 
        movements in foreign countries, particularly regarding 
        successful nonviolent campaigns to oust dictatorships.
            (5) Narratives relating to the importance of the 
        establishment of and respect for fundamental freedoms.
            (6) The annual Trafficking in Persons Report prepared by 
        the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons of the 
        Department of State.
            (7) The annual International Religious Freedom Report 
        prepared by the Office of International Religious Freedom in 
        the Bureau of Human Rights and Labor of the Department of 
        State.
            (8) The annual Country Reports on Human Rights Practices 
        prepared by the Bureau of Human Rights and Labor of the 
        Department of State.
            (9) Any other documents, references, or links to external 
        Internet sites the Secretary or Under Secretary determines 
        appropriate, including reference to or links to training 
        materials regarding successful movements in the past.
    (c) Translation.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State shall ensure that 
        the relevant country specific sections of the Annual Report on 
        Democracy and the country specific sections of the content 
        described in paragraphs (7) through (9) of subsection (b) that 
        relate to particular countries are translated into the 
        principal languages of such countries and posted on the 
        Internet website described in such subsection.
            (2) Date for posting.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        submission of the Annual Report on Democracy, the translations 
        required by this subsection shall be completed.

SEC. 108. PROGRAMS BY UNITED STATES MISSIONS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES AND 
              ACTIVITIES OF CHIEFS OF MISSION.

    (a) Development of Programs to Promote Democracy in Foreign 
Countries.--The Secretary of State shall direct each chief of mission 
in each foreign country categorized as nondemocratic in the most recent 
Annual Report on Democracy to--
            (1) develop, as part of annual program planning, a strategy 
        to promote democracy in the foreign country and to provide 
        visible and material support to individuals and nongovernmental 
        organizations in that country that are committed to democratic 
        principles, practices, and values, such as--
                    (A) consulting and coordinating with such 
                individuals and organizations regarding the promotion 
                of democracy;
                    (B) visiting local landmarks and other local sites 
                associated with nonviolent protest in support of 
                democracy and freedom from oppression;
                    (C) holding periodic public meetings with such 
                individuals and organizations to discuss democracy and 
                political, social, and economic freedoms;
                    (D) issuing public condemnation of severe 
                violations of internationally recognized human rights 
                (as such term is described in section 116(a) of the 
                Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151n(a)), 
                violations of religious freedom, including particularly 
                severe violations of religious freedom (as such terms 
                are defined in paragraphs (11) and (13) of section 3 of 
                the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 
                U.S.C. 6402)), political repression, and government-
                tolerated or condoned trafficking in persons; and
                    (E) providing technical, financial, and such other 
                support to such individuals and organizations;
            (2) hold ongoing discussions with the leaders of the 
        nondemocratic country regarding a transition to full democracy 
        and the development of political, social, and economic freedoms 
        and respect for human rights, including freedom of religion or 
        belief, in the country; and
            (3) conduct meetings with civil society, interviews with 
        media that can directly reach citizens of such country, and 
        discussions with students and young people of the nondemocratic 
        country regarding a transition to democracy and the development 
        of political, social, and economic freedoms in the country.
    (b) Public Outreach in Foreign Countries.--Each chief of mission or 
principal officer should spend a substantial amount of time at 
universities and other institutions of higher learning to--
            (1) debate and discuss values and policies that promote 
        democracy; and
            (2) communicate, promote, and defend such United States 
        values and policies.
    (c) Access to United States Missions.--The Secretary is authorized 
and encouraged to allow access to a United States diplomatic or 
consular mission in each foreign country categorized as partly 
democratic or nondemocratic in the most recent Annual Report on 
Democracy by individuals and representatives of nongovernmental 
organizations in that country who are committed to democratic 
principles, practices, and values in that country.

SEC. 109. TRAINING FOR FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICERS.

    (a) Training in Democracy and the Promotion of Democracy and Human 
Rights.--Section 708 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
4028) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Training on Global Democracy Promotion.--
            ``(1) In general.--In addition to the training required 
        under subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary of State, in 
        cooperation with other relevant officials, including the Under 
        Secretary of State for Global Affairs, and the Director of the 
        National Foreign Affairs Training Center of the Foreign Service 
        Institute of the Department of State, shall establish as part 
        of the training provided after December 31, 2006, for members 
        of the Service, including all chiefs of mission and deputy 
        chiefs of mission, instruction in how to strengthen and promote 
        democracy through peaceful means in consultation with 
        individuals and nongovernmental organizations that support 
        democratic principles, practice and values. In particular, such 
        instruction shall be mandatory for members of the Service 
        having reporting or other responsibilities relating to internal 
        political developments and human rights, including religious 
        freedom, in nondemocratic or partly democratic countries, 
        including for chiefs of mission and deputy chiefs of mission, 
        and shall be completed before the time that such member or 
        chief of mission assumes a post (or, if such is not practical, 
        within the first year of assuming such post).
            ``(2) Contents of training.--The training required under 
        paragraph (1) shall include instruction, a training manual, and 
        other materials regarding the following:
                    ``(A) International documents and United States 
                policy regarding electoral democracy and respect for 
                human rights.
                    ``(B) United States policy regarding the promotion 
                and strengthening of democracy around the world, with 
                particular emphasis on the transition to democracy in 
                nondemocratic countries.
                    ``(C) For any member, chief of mission, or deputy 
                chief of mission who is to be assigned to a foreign 
                country that is categorized as nondemocratic in the 
                Annual Report on Democracy required under section 
                102(b) of the Advance Democratic Values, Address 
                Nondemocratic Countries, and Enhance Democracy Act of 
                2005, instruction regarding--
                            ``(i) the status of political rights in 
                        such country;
                            ``(ii) ways to promote democracy in such 
                        country including building relationships and 
                        consulting with individuals and nongovernmental 
                        organizations in such country that support 
                        democratic principles, practices, and values;
                            ``(iii) providing technical, financial, and 
                        other support to individuals (including 
                        expatriated citizens) and nongovernmental 
                        organizations in such country that support 
                        democratic principles, practices, and values;
                            ``(iv) visiting local landmarks and other 
                        local sites associated with nonviolent protest 
                        in support of democracy and freedom from 
                        oppression;
                            ``(v) conducting discussions with the 
                        leaders of such country regarding--
                                    ``(I) a transition to full 
                                democracy;
                                    ``(II) political, social, and 
                                economic freedoms;
                                    ``(III) United States policy to 
                                promote democracy in foreign countries; 
                                and
                                    ``(IV) the possibility that such 
                                leaders might voluntarily cede power;
                            ``(vi) conducting discussions with the 
                        students and young people of such country 
                        regarding--
                                    ``(I) a transition to full 
                                democracy;
                                    ``(II) political, social, and 
                                economic freedoms; and
                                    ``(III) United States policy to 
                                promote democracy in foreign countries;
                            ``(vii) the methods of nonviolent action 
                        and the most effective manner to share such 
                        information with individuals and 
                        nongovernmental organizations in such country 
                        that support democratic principles, practices, 
                        and values; and
                            ``(viii) the investigation and 
                        documentation of violations of internationally 
                        recognized human rights in coordination with 
                        nongovernmental human rights organizations, 
                        violations of religious freedom, including 
                        particularly severe violations of religious 
                        freedom (as such terms are defined in 
                        paragraphs (11) and (13) of section 3 of the 
                        International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 
                        U.S.C. 6402)), political repression, and 
                        government-tolerated or condoned trafficking in 
                        persons that occur in such country.
                    ``(D) The protection of internationally recognized 
                human rights (including the protection of religious 
                freedom) and standards related to such rights, 
                provisions of United States law related to such rights, 
                the various aspects and manifestations of violations of 
                such rights, diplomatic tools to promote respect for 
                such rights, the protection of individuals who have 
                fled their countries due to violations of such rights 
                (including the role of United States embassies in 
                providing access to the United States Refugee 
                Admissions Program) and the relationship between 
                respect for such rights and democratic development and 
                national security. The Director of the National Foreign 
                Affairs Training Center of the Foreign Service 
                Institute of the Department of State shall consult with 
                nongovernmental organizations involved in the 
                protection and promotion of such rights and the United 
                States Commission on International Religious Freedom 
                (established under section 201(a) of the International 
                Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6431(a)) in 
                developing the training required by this 
                subparagraph.''.
    (b) Other Training.--The Secretary of State shall ensure that the 
training described in subsection (a) is provided to members of the 
civil service who are assigned in the United States or abroad who have 
reporting or other responsibilities relating to internal political 
developments and human rights in countries that are categorized as 
partly democratic or nondemocratic in the Annual Report on Democracy 
required under section 102(b) of the Advance Democratic Values, Address 
Nondemocratic Countries, and Enhance Democracy Act of 2005.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to develop appropriate 
programs and materials to accomplish the training required under 
subsection (c) of section 708 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
U.S.C. 4028), as added by subsection (a).
    (d) Clerical Amendments.--Section 708 of the Foreign Service Act of 
1980 is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) by striking ``(a) The'' and inserting 
        ``(a) Training on Human Rights.--The''; and
            (2) in subsection (b) by striking ``(b) The'' and inserting 
        ``(b) Training on Refugee Law and Religious Persecution.--
        The''.

SEC. 110. PERFORMANCE PAY; PROMOTIONS; FOREIGN SERVICE AWARDS.

    (a) Performance Pay.--Section 405(d) of the Foreign Service Act of 
1980 (22 U.S.C. 3965(d)) is amended by inserting after the second 
sentence the following new sentence: ``Meritorious or distinguished 
service in the promotion of democracy in foreign countries, including 
contact with and support of individuals and nongovernmental 
organizations that promote democracy in a foreign country categorized 
as nondemocratic in the most recent Annual Report on Democracy (as 
required under section 102(b) of the Advance Democratic Values, Address 
Nondemocratic Countries, and Enhance Democracy Act of 2005), shall also 
serve as a basis for granting awards under this section.''.
    (b) Promotions.--Section 603(b) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4003(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ``Precepts for selection boards shall also, where applicable, 
include an evaluation of whether members of the Service and members of 
the Senior Foreign Service have met the standards of performance 
established by the Secretary pursuant to section 110(c) of the Advance 
Democratic Values, Address Nondemocratic Countries, and Enhance 
Democracy Act of 2005, or have served in a position in which the 
primary responsibility is to monitor or promote democracy or human 
rights.''.
    (c) Regulations and Evaluations Concerning Standards of Performance 
and Programs to Promote Democracy.--With respect to members of the 
Foreign Service, including all chiefs of mission, who are assigned to 
foreign countries categorized as nondemocratic in the most recent 
Annual Report on Democracy, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations 
concerning the standards of performance to be met under sections 405(d) 
and 603(b) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3965(d) and 
4003(b)), as amended by subsections (a) and (b), respectively, and the 
development of programs to promote democracy in foreign countries under 
section 108. The requirements of sections 108 and 109(a) shall serve as 
one of the bases for performance criteria in evaluating chiefs of 
mission and those officers at posts so designated by the chief of 
mission.
    (d) Foreign Service Awards.--Section 614 of the Foreign Service Act 
of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4013) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new sentence: ``Distinguished or meritorious service in the promotion 
of democracy in foreign countries, including contact with and support 
of individuals and nongovernmental organizations that promote democracy 
in a foreign country categorized as nondemocratic in the most recent 
Annual Report on Democracy (as required under section 102(b) of the 
Advance Democratic Values, Address Nondemocratic Countries, and Enhance 
Democracy Act of 2005), shall also serve as a basis for granting awards 
under this section.''.
    (e) Congressional Democracy Award.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established a Congressional 
        Award for Outstanding Achievements in Advancing Democracy to be 
        awarded to officers or employees of the Government of the 
        United States. The Award shall be in addition to any other 
        award issued by the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human 
        Rights, and Labor for the promotion of human rights in such 
        countries.
            (2) Selection.--The Secretary of State shall establish 
        procedures for selecting recipients of the Award. The criteria 
        for selecting recipients of the Award shall include whether the 
        candidate has made extraordinary efforts to promote democracy.
            (3) Financial award.--The recipient of the Award shall 
        receive not less than $5,000. Such sum shall be in addition to 
        any other compensation received by the recipient. Amounts 
        awarded shall be drawn from amounts appropriated to the 
        Department of State.
            (4) Award ceremony.--Congress shall host an annual awards 
        ceremony for the recipient of the Award. Costs associated with 
        travel by the recipient to the ceremony shall be paid by the 
        United States.
            (5) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be 
        necessary to award the Award, including such sums as may be 
        necessary to cover costs associated with the Award.

SEC. 111. APPOINTMENTS.

    (a) Appointments by the President.--Section 302 of the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3942) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection:
    ``(c) If an individual (with respect to subsection (a)) or a member 
of the Service (with respect to subsection (b)) is appointed by the 
President to be and if such individual or such member has previously 
served as a chief of mission of the United States in a country at the 
time such country was categorized as nondemocratic in an Annual Report 
on Democracy (required under section 102(b) of the Advance Democratic 
Values, Address Non-Democratic Countries, and Enhance Democracy Act of 
2005, the President shall transmit to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate a written report summarizing the actions that 
such individual or member took during the period of such prior service 
to promote democracy and human rights in such country, including 
actions in furtherance of the action plan contained in such report.''.
    (b) Chiefs of Mission.--Section 304(a)(1) of such Act (22 U.S.C. 
3944(a)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
``If the country in which the individual is to serve is categorized as 
nondemocratic in the most recent Annual Report on Democracy (as 
required under section 102(b) of the Advance Democratic Values, Address 
Non-Democratic Countries, and Enhance Democracy Act of 2005), the 
individual should possess clearly demonstrated competence in and 
commitment to the promotion of democracy in that country, including 
competence in promoting democratic practices, values, and ideals 
through regular interaction with individuals, including students and 
young people within that country, who support and advocate such 
principles, practices, and values.''.

          TITLE II--ALLIANCES WITH OTHER DEMOCRATIC COUNTRIES

SEC. 201. ALLIANCES WITH OTHER DEMOCRATIC COUNTRIES.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that it is in the national interest of 
the United States, including for humanitarian, economic, social, 
political, and security reasons, to forge alliances with democratic 
countries to work together to promote and protect--
            (1) shared democratic principles, practices, and values; 
        and
            (2) political, social, and economic freedoms around the 
        world.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are to encourage new ways 
of forging alliances with democratic countries in order to--
            (1) promote and protect democratic principles, practices, 
        and values, including the right to free, fair, and open 
        elections, secret balloting, and universal suffrage;
            (2) promote and protect fundamental shared political, 
        social, and economic freedoms, including the freedoms of 
        association, of expression, of the press, of religion, and to 
        own private property;
            (3) promote and protect respect for the rule of law;
            (4) develop, adopt, and pursue strategies to advance common 
        interests in international organizations and multilateral 
        institutions to which members of the alliance of democratic 
        countries belong; and
            (5) provide political, economic, and other necessary 
        support to countries that are undergoing a transition to 
        democracy.
    (c) Authorization.--The President is authorized to take such 
actions as the President determines to be necessary and appropriate to 
establish alliances with other democratic countries to achieve the 
purposes described in subsection (b).
    (d) Sense of Congress Regarding Participation.--It is the sense of 
Congress that any foreign country that is categorized as nondemocratic 
in the most recent Annual Report on Democracy under section 102(b) 
should not participate in any alliance of democratic countries aimed at 
working together to promote democracy.

SEC. 202. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A DEMOCRACY 
              CAUCUS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that with the passage of the 
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (Public Law 
108-458), Congress--
            (1) encouraged the establishment of a Democracy Caucus 
        within the United Nations, the United Nations Human Rights 
        Commission, the United Nations Conference on Disarmament, and 
        at other broad-based international organizations; and
            (2) required increased training in multilateral diplomacy 
        for members of the Foreign Service and appropriate members of 
        the Civil Service to support such an establishment.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
creation of a Democracy Caucus in each international organization and 
multilateral institution of which the United States is a member will 
not only improve the internal governance of such organizations but will 
also strengthen the implementation of commitments by such organizations 
and institutions regarding democracy and human rights.

SEC. 203. ANNUAL DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS ON MULTILATERAL ISSUES.

     The Secretary of State, acting through the principal officers 
responsible for advising the Secretary on international organizations, 
shall ensure that a high level delegation from the United States is 
sent on an annual basis to consult with key foreign governments in 
every region to promote United States policies, including issues 
related to democracy and human rights, at key international fora, 
including the United Nations General Assembly, the United Nations Human 
Rights Commission, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in 
Europe, and the United Nations Education, Science, and Cultural 
Organization.

SEC. 204. STRENGTHENING THE COMMUNITY OF DEMOCRACIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
establishing a more formal structure for the Community of Democracies 
may eventually be necessary in the future, at which time the United 
States should guide and strongly support such a development. It is the 
sense of Congress that, if properly funded and supported, the Community 
of Democracies can achieve great success toward the global promotion of 
democratic principles, practices, and values.
    (b) Membership Authorized.--The President is authorized to enter 
the United States into membership of the Community of Democracies if 
the Community should become an organization.
    (c) Regional Group in the Community of Democracies.--It is the 
sense of Congress that regional groups within the Community of 
Democracies should be established and strengthened in order to 
facilitate coordination of common positions and action on multilateral 
strategies to promote and consolidate democracy.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) Membership in community of democracies.--There are 
        authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to 
        pay the assessed costs for membership of the United States in 
        the Community of Democracies.
            (2) Cost of headquarters.--There is authorized to be 
        appropriated to the Secretary of State $5,000,000 for fiscal 
        year 2006 for a grant or voluntary contribution for the 
        acquisition, refurbishment, or construction of a headquarters 
        building for the Community of Democracies. Such funds may also 
        be applied toward the costs of meetings and studies to 
        formalize the location of such headquarters, the costs of 
        providing equipment for such headquarters, and other logistical 
        matters related to such headquarters. Amounts appropriated for 
        these purpose are authorized to remain available until 
        expended.
    (e) Democracy Transition Center.--
            (1) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
        the United States should support the initiative of the 
        Government of Hungary and the governments of other European 
        countries to establish a Democracy Transition Center to support 
        transitions to full democracy.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Secretary of State for a grant or 
        voluntary contribution to the Democracy Transition Center 
        $4,000,000 for fiscal year 2006, $3,000,000 for fiscal year 
        2007, $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2008, and $1,000,000 for 
        fiscal year 2009. Amounts appropriated under this paragraph 
        shall remain available until expended.
            (3) Use of funds.--Any grant or voluntary contribution made 
        in fiscal year 2006 by the Secretary to the Democracy 
        Transition Center under paragraph (2) may be used for the 
        establishment and operations of the Center and for programs and 
        activities of the Center. Any grant or voluntary contribution 
        made in any subsequent fiscal year by the Secretary to the 
        Center under such paragraph may be used for programs and 
        activities of the Center.
            (4) Programs and activities.--The programs and activities 
        of the Democracy Transition Center referred to in paragraph (3) 
        are programs and activities that--
                    (A) develop, adopt, or pursue programs, campaigns, 
                and tactics to promote the peaceful transition to 
                democracy in nondemocratic countries and, in addition, 
                to work with countries that have gone through a 
                transition to a partly democratic form of government in 
                order to consolidate and accelerate progress toward a 
                fully democratic form of government;
                    (B) provide political, financial, and other 
                necessary support to individuals and nongovernmental 
                organizations that promote democratic principles, 
                practices, and values in each nondemocratic country, 
                including training in nonviolent means of protest and 
                resistance;
                    (C) support consultations with such individuals and 
                nongovernmental organizations in countries that are not 
                fully democratic regarding the best approaches to 
                assist such countries to make the transition to a fully 
                democratic form of government;
                    (D) establish a dialogue with the leaders of each 
                nondemocratic country to discuss democratic principles, 
                practices, and values, fundamental freedoms and human 
                rights, and the possibility of such leaders voluntarily 
                initiating a transition to democracy;
                    (E) educate and train diplomats, military attaches, 
                and other appropriate individuals from member countries 
                of the Community of Democracies in the means to promote 
                democracy within host countries that are nondemocratic; 
                and
                    (F) undertake any other appropriate or necessary 
                actions that are compatible with the mission and goal 
                of the Center.

SEC. 205. FUNDING FOR NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS SUPPORTING A 
              COMMUNITY OF DEMOCRACIES.

    (a) Grants.--The Secretary of State is authorized to make grants to 
United States nongovernmental organizations which have experience with 
the Community of Democracies to assist the Community of Democracies and 
its Convening Group to plan its interim and annual conferences and 
other related activities with a focus on issues related to the 
promotion of transitions to and consolidation of democracy.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out this section.

SEC. 206. REPORTS.

    (a) Annual Report on the Status of Democratic Alliances of the 
United States.--Not later than October 1 of each year, the Secretary of 
State, in coordination with the Under Secretary of State for Global 
Affairs, the Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, 
and Labor, and appropriate international organizations, shall submit to 
the appropriate congressional committees an Annual Report on the Status 
of Democratic Alliances of the United States. Each Annual Report shall 
contain the following information:
            (1) An evaluation of the efforts undertaken by the United 
        States to establish a caucus of democratic countries in 
        international organizations, multilateral institutions, and 
        related bodies within such organizations and institutions.
            (2) An evaluation of efforts undertaken by the United 
        States to encourage a more formal framework for the Community 
        of Democracies, including the creation of supporting 
        institutions.
            (3) An evaluation of the efforts undertaken by the United 
        States to establish the Democracy Transition Center.
            (4) An evaluation of any other efforts undertaken by the 
        United States in furtherance of democratic alliances or 
        cooperation with democratic countries to promote universal 
        democracy.
            (5) An evaluation of the efforts undertaken by other 
        democratic states belonging to the Community of Democracies in 
        furtherance of advancing democracy around the world, including 
        through the Community of Democracies, relevant bodies of the 
        United Nations, democracy caucuses, regional organizations, and 
        bilateral policies and foreign assistance.
    (b) Report Regarding Election to a Leadership Post in International 
Organizations, Multilateral Institutions, or Bodies Thereof.--In the 
event of an election or rotation of any country, or representative of 
any country, to a leadership position in an international organization 
or multilateral institution (or related body thereof) with a mandate to 
vote on issues related to democracy and human rights, if such country 
is subject to a determination by the Secretary under section 620A of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371), section 40 of the 
Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780), or section 6(j) of the Export 
Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 2405(j)), or if such country is 
categorized as nondemocratic in the most recent Annual Report on 
Democracy under section 102(b), the Secretary of State shall, not later 
than 15 days after such election or rotation, notify the appropriate 
congressional committees of such election or rotation and submit a 
classified report evaluating any steps or actions taken by the United 
States to prevent such election or rotation and recommendations for 
appropriate further steps or actions.

             TITLE III--FUNDING FOR PROMOTION OF DEMOCRACY

SEC. 301. POLICY.

    It shall be the policy of the United States to provide financial 
assistance to eligible entities and eligible individuals in order to 
assist such entities and individuals in the promotion of democracy in 
countries categorized as nondemocratic in the most recent Annual Report 
on Democracy under section 102(b).

SEC. 302. HUMAN RIGHTS AND DEMOCRACY FUND.

    (a) Findings.--
            (1) The Human Rights and Democracy Fund, established under 
        section 664 of the Freedom Investment Act of 2002 (subtitle E 
        of title VI of Public Law 107-228) provides critical support 
        for unique projects that promote democracy and human rights in 
        foreign countries of strategic significance to the United 
        States.
            (2) Support for such projects underscores the commitment of 
        the United States to--
                    (A) promote democracy and human rights; and
                    (B) fight against terrorism.
            (3) Funds allocated to the Human Rights and Democracy Fund 
        for fiscal years 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 have been 
        $9,000,000, $13,421,000, $13,000,000 and $31,448,000, 
        respectively.
            (4) Additional funding for the Human Rights and Democracy 
        Fund is in the national interests of the United States.
    (b) Purposes of the Human Rights and Democracy Fund.--In addition 
to uses currently approved for the Human Rights and Democracy Fund, the 
Secretary of State, acting through the Assistant Secretary of State for 
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor shall use amounts appropriated to 
the Human Rights and Democracy Fund under subsection (g) to provide 
assistance to eligible entities and eligible individuals to promote 
democracy in foreign countries categorized as nondemocratic in the most 
recent Annual Report on Democracy under section 102(b). The promotion 
of democracy in such countries for which such assistance may be 
provided may include the following activities:
            (1) The publication and distribution of books and the 
        creation and distribution of other media, including audio and 
        video cassettes, compact discs and digital video discs, and 
        other audio and video publications, and the purchase and 
        distribution of any equipment needed to review such books and 
        other media. Such books and other media should include--
                    (A) factual news and related information about 
                current and relevant events and developments in such 
                country and elsewhere in the world; and
                    (B) educational programming designed to provide 
                information regarding democracy, the rule of law, free, 
                fair and open elections, free market economics, 
                fundamental human rights (including the rights of 
                freedom of speech and of religion and the rights to be 
                free from slavery and bondage), and successful 
                democratic movements in history.
            (2) The translation into languages spoken in such countries 
        of relevant programming and existing books, videos, and other 
        publications relating to the subjects specified in 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1).
            (3) The promotion of political pluralism within such 
        countries, including the promotion of nongovernmental 
        organizations and movements that promote democratic principles, 
        practices, and values.
            (4) The promotion of the rule of law and the protection of 
        minorities.
            (5) The creation of educational programs for leaders and 
        members of democratic movements to convey information to such 
        individuals regarding the means of nonviolent force and the 
        methods of nonviolent action.
            (6) The creation of programs for student groups to work 
        with citizens of such countries who are committed to democratic 
        reforms and to the promotion of a transition to democracy.
            (7) The production and distribution of materials that 
        promote and celebrate democracy and the equipment needed to 
        produce such materials.
            (8) The creation of cultural exchanges between citizens of 
        such countries and citizens of the United States.
            (9) The creation of projects to strengthen the parliaments 
        and parliamentary staff in such countries.
            (10) The creation of programs to ensure transparency and 
        accountability for government revenues and expenditures, with 
        particular emphasis on revenues derived from extractive 
        industries.
            (11) The creation of training programs for citizens of such 
        countries concerning international legal obligations to support 
        democracy and human rights, including religious freedom.
            (12) Any other activities related to the promotion of 
        democracy or the transition of such countries to democracy that 
        the Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs determines 
        appropriate.
    (c) Freedom Investment Act of 2002.--Section 664(b) of the Freedom 
Investment Act of 2002 (subtitle E of title VI of Public Law 107-228, 
relating to the purposes of the Human Rights and Democracy Fund) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6);
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(5) to support the study of democracy abroad, including 
        support for debates and discussions at academic institutions, 
        regarding the values and benefits of democracy; and''; and
            (4) in paragraph (6), as redesignated by paragraph (2) of 
        this subsection, by striking ``(4)'' and inserting ``(5)''.
    (d) Administrative Authorities.--Assistance provided through the 
Human Rights and Democracy Fund may be provided to eligible entities 
and eligible individuals in foreign countries notwithstanding any 
provisions of law that prohibit assistance to a foreign country or to a 
government of a foreign country.
    (e) Annual Report on the Status of the Human Rights and Democracy 
Fund.--Within 60 days of the conclusion of each fiscal year, the 
Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an annual 
report on the status of the Human Rights and Democracy Fund. Each such 
annual report shall contain the following information:
            (1) An identification of each eligible entity and eligible 
        individual who received assistance during the previous fiscal 
        year under subsection (b) and a summary of the activities of 
        each such recipient.
            (2) An account of projects funded and outside contributions 
        received during the previous fiscal year.
            (3) A balance sheet of income and outlays current as of the 
        conclusion of fiscal year to which such report is relevant.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Human Rights and Democracy Fund to carry out the purposes 
        of this section $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2006 and 
        $150,000,000 for fiscal year 2007. Amounts appropriated under 
        this section shall remain available until expended.
            (2) Administrative expenses.--Not more than five percent of 
        amounts appropriated to the Human Rights and Democracy Fund for 
        each fiscal year may be applied toward administrative expenses 
        of the carrying out this section.
            (3) Contributions.-- The Secretary may accept contributions 
        to the Human Rights and Democracy Fund from the governments of 
        other democratic countries, private foundations, private 
        citizens, and other nongovernmental sources.

         TITLE IV--SUPPORT FOR SPECIAL AND REGIONAL INITIATIVES

SEC. 401. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Helsinki Final Act of 1975 of the Conference on 
        Security and Cooperation in Europe (1 August 1975) and the 
        Helsinki Process empowered democrats living in nondemocratic 
        countries to organize and insist that the governments of such 
        countries honor the commitments to economic and human rights 
        that such governments had pledged. These local democrats and 
        the Helsinki Process played a fundamental role in bringing 
        about the peaceful end to the communist dictatorships of 
        Eastern Europe.
            (2) Since 1975, Algeria, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Morocco, 
        and Tunisia have been ``Mediterranean Partners for 
        Cooperation'' with the Organization for Security and 
        Cooperation in Europe.
            (3) Conferences regarding security and cooperation in the 
        regions of Africa, Asia, and the Middle East present an 
        opportunity to establish an agreement concerning organizing 
        principles and processes to guide the countries of these 
        regions in the transition to greater security, prosperity, 
        justice, and freedom.
            (4) At the Second Ministerial Conference of the Community 
        of Democracies in Seoul, South Korea, all participating 
        governments endorsed the importance of furthering democracy 
        through the formation of regional groups and initiatives. 
        United States support for this regional approach would have a 
        beneficial impact on the promotion of democracy in 
        nondemocratic countries.

SEC. 402. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING SUPPORT FOR REGIONAL INITIATIVES.

    It is the sense of Congress that the President, acting through the 
Secretary of State, the Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs, 
and relevant United States chiefs of mission, should support the 
efforts of countries and groups in the regions of the Mediterranean, 
the Middle East, Asia, and Africa to organize regional processes 
similar to the Helsinki Process to promote better relations among each 
other and among the other countries of the world, to promote peaceful 
relations, to strengthen regional security, and to promote fundamental 
rights and political, economic, and social progress.

                     TITLE V--PRESIDENTIAL ACTIONS

SEC. 501. DESCRIPTION OF PRESIDENTIAL ACTIONS.

    (a) Authorization.--With respect to a foreign country categorized 
as nondemocratic in the most recent Annual Report on Democracy under 
section 102(b), the President is authorized to--
            (1) issue a private or public demarche to, or a public 
        condemnation of, the government or any official of the 
        government of such country;
            (2) issue a public condemnation within one or more 
        multilateral fora to the government or any official of the 
        government of such country;
            (3) recall the chief of mission to such country;
            (4) investigate, block during the pendency of an 
        investigation, regulate, direct and compel, nullify, void, 
        prevent, or prohibit any acquisition, holding, withholding, 
        use, transfer, withdrawal, transportation, importation or 
        exportation of, or dealing in, or exercising any right, power, 
        or privilege with respect to, or transactions involving, any 
        property subject to the jurisdiction of the United States in 
        which the government of such country or any official of the 
        government of such country has any interest;
            (5) instruct, through the Secretary of the Treasury, the 
        United States executive directors to each international 
        financial institution to vote against and actively oppose any 
        extension by the respective institution of any loan, credit, or 
        guarantee to or for the benefit of the government, or any 
        specified official of the government, of such country;
            (6) direct the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, and 
        the Trade and Development Agency, as appropriate, to not 
        approve the issuance of any (or a specified number of) 
        guarantees, insurance, extensions of credit, or participations 
        in the extension of credit for the benefit of or with respect 
        to the government, or any specified official of the government, 
        of such country;
            (7) prohibit the United States from procuring, or entering 
        into any contract for the procurement of, any goods or services 
        from any specified official of the government of such country;
            (8) order the heads of appropriate United States agencies 
        to not issue any (or a specified number of) specific licenses, 
        and to not grant any other specific authority (or a specified 
        number of authorities), to export any goods or technology to 
        any specified official of the government of such country, or to 
        any other specified resident of such country, under--
                    (A) the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 
                U.S.C. App. 2401 et seq.);
                    (B) the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et 
                seq.);
                    (C) the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 
                et seq.); or
                    (D) any other Federal law that requires the prior 
                review and approval of the United States as a condition 
                for the export or reexport of goods or services; and
            (9) consistent with section 212(f) of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C 1182(f)), deny entry into the United 
        States of any specified alien who--
                    (A) is an official of the government of such 
                country; or
                    (B) is a spouse, minor child, or agent of such an 
                official.
    (b) No Effect on Existing Law.--The encouragement to Presidential 
action provided under this section is in addition to and shall not 
supersede United States obligations under domestic law or international 
agreement.
    (c) Regulations.--The President may issue such regulations, 
including regulations prescribing definitions, as may be necessary for 
the exercise of the actions described in this section.

SEC. 502. INVESTIGATION OF VIOLATIONS OF INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN 
              LAW.

    (a) In General.--The President, with the assistance of the 
Secretary of State, the Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs, 
and the Ambassador-at-Large for War Crimes Issues, shall collect 
information regarding incidents that may constitute crimes against 
humanity, genocide, slavery, or other violations of international 
humanitarian law by leaders or other government officials of foreign 
countries categorized as nondemocratic in the most recent Annual Report 
on Democracy under section 102(b).
    (b) Report.--Not later than January 15 of each year, the President, 
acting through the Secretary, with the assistance of the Under 
Secretary of State for Global Affairs and the Ambassador-at-Large for 
War Crimes Issues, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report concerning the information collected under 
subsection (a) and any findings, determinations, or recommendations 
made on the basis of such information.
    (c) Accountability.--The President shall consider what actions can 
be taken to ensure that the leaders or other government officials of 
foreign countries who are identified in accordance with subsection (a) 
as responsible for crimes against humanity, genocide, slavery, or other 
violations of international humanitarian law are brought to account for 
such crimes in an appropriately constituted tribunal.
    (d) Limitation on Disclosure.--Nothing contained in this section 
shall require the disclosure, on a classified or unclassified basis, of 
information that the President determines would jeopardize sensitive 
sources and methods or other national security interests of the United 
States.

SEC. 503. PRESIDENTIAL COMMUNICATIONS.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that direct communications from the 
President to citizens of countries that are categorized as 
nondemocratic in the most recent Annual Report on Democracy would be 
extremely beneficial to demonstrate that the United States supports 
such citizens and the efforts and actions of such citizens to promote 
and achieve transition to democracy in such countries.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) from time to time as the President shall determine 
        appropriate, the President should broadcast a message to the 
        citizens of countries categorized as nondemocratic in the most 
        recent Annual Report on Democracy under section 102(b) 
        expressing the support of the United States for such citizens, 
        discussing democratic principles, practices, and values, and 
        political, social, and economic freedoms, and condemning 
        violations of internationally recognized human rights (as such 
        term is described in section 116(a) of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151n(a))), violations of religious 
        freedom, including particularly severe violations of religious 
        freedom (as such terms are defined in paragraphs (11) and (13) 
        of section 3 of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 
        (22 U.S.C. 6402)), political repression, and government-
        tolerated or condoned trafficking in persons that occur in such 
        country; and
            (2) the President should encourage leaders of other 
        democratic countries to make similar broadcasts.

                  TITLE VI--NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

SEC. 601. SPECIAL ASSISTANT ON NONDEMOCRATIC COUNTRIES.

    Section 101 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 402) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating the second subsection (i), as added by 
        section 301 of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 
        (Public Law 105-292), as subsection (k); and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(l) It is the sense of Congress that there should be within the 
staff of the National Security Council a Special Assistant to the 
President on Nondemocratic Countries and Transition to Democracy whose 
position should be comparable to that of a senior director within the 
Executive Office of the President. The Special Assistant should serve 
as liaison with the Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs, 
Congress and, as advisable, nongovernmental organizations committed to 
the promotion of democracy. The Special Assistant should serve as a 
resource for executive branch officials to--
            ``(1) compile and maintain information on the facts and 
        circumstances of actions by the leaders of nondemocratic 
        countries and any threats to national and global security posed 
        by such countries;
            ``(2) support interagency meetings either at the Deputy or 
        Assistant Secretary level to discuss--
                    ``(A) the promotion of democracy;
                    ``(B) the protection of human rights; and
                    ``(C) individualized strategies for the promotion 
                of democracy in nondemocratic and partly democratic 
                countries;
            ``(3) facilitate transition to a fully democratic form of 
        government for countries that are partly democratic; and
            ``(4) make policy recommendations.''.
                                 <all>
