
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 138 Engrossed in House (EH)]


                 In the House of Representatives, U.S.,

                                                          May 10, 2001.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1646) to authorize appropriations for the Department of State for 
fiscal years 2002 and 2003, and for other purposes. The first reading of the 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on International Relations. After general 
debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It 
shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment 
under the five-minute rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on International Relations now printed in the bill. 
The committee amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against the committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute are waived. No amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of 
a substitute shall be in order except those printed in the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Except as specified in section 
2 of this resolution, each such amendment may be offered only in the order 
printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, 
shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the 
report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall 
not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division 
of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of 
the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House 
with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate 
vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the 
bill or to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 2. The Chairman of the Committee of the Whole may recognize for 
consideration of any amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
out of the order printed, but not sooner than one hour after the Majority Leader 
or his designee announces from the floor a request to that effect.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
