
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4967 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4967

                      One Hundred Seventh Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

         Begun and held at the City of Washington on Wednesday,
          the twenty-third day of January, two thousand and two


                                 An Act


 
   To establish new nonimmigrant classes for border commuter students.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Border Commuter Student Act of 
2002''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF BORDER COMMUTER NONIMMIGRANT CLASS.

    (a) Class for Academic or Language Studies.--Section 101(a)(15)(F) 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(F)) is 
amended by striking ``and (ii)'' and all that follows through the end 
of subparagraph (F) and inserting the following: ``(ii) the alien 
spouse and minor children of any alien described in clause (i) if 
accompanying or following to join such an alien, and (iii) an alien who 
is a national of Canada or Mexico, who maintains actual residence and 
place of abode in the country of nationality, who is described in 
clause (i) except that the alien's qualifications for and actual course 
of study may be full or part-time, and who commutes to the United 
States institution or place of study from Canada or Mexico;''.
    (b) Class for Vocational or Nonacademic Studies.--Section 
101(a)(15)(M) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1101(a)(15)(M)) is amended by striking ``and (ii)'' and all that 
follows through the end of subparagraph (M) and inserting the 
following: ``(ii) the alien spouse and minor children of any alien 
described in clause (i) if accompanying or following to join such an 
alien, and (iii) an alien who is a national of Canada or Mexico, who 
maintains actual residence and place of abode in the country of 
nationality, who is described in clause (i) except that the alien's 
course of study may be full or part-time, and who commutes to the 
United States institution or place of study from Canada or Mexico;''.
    (c) Limitation.--Section 214(m) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(m); as redesignated by section 107(e)(2)(A) of 
Public Law 106-386) is amended by striking ``section 101(a)(15)(F)(i)'' 
both places it appears and inserting ``clause (i) or (iii) of section 
101(a)(15)(F)''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
