
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 208 Engrossed in House (EH)]


                 In the House of Representatives, U.S.,

                                                        April 20, 2005.
Whereas Dr. William S. McEllroy, Dean of the University of Pittsburgh School of 
        Medicine, in 1947 recruited Dr. Jonas Salk to develop a virus research 
        program at the University of Pittsburgh;
Whereas Dr. Salk, the first member of his family to attend college, had prior to 
        moving to the University of Pittsburgh served in an appointment at the 
        University of Michigan for 5\1/2\ years, and during this period at the 
        University of Michigan, which was during World War II, Dr. Salk became 
        known for his expertise on the immunology of influenza and developed the 
        vaccine that continues to be used against influenza;
Whereas Dr. Salk set up a research laboratory in The Municipal Hospital for 
        Contagious Diseases, now Salk Hall at the University of Pittsburgh;
Whereas the epidemic of polio peaked in 1952, having affected nearly 58,000 
        people, mainly children and young adults;
Whereas many of those affected were confined to mechanical ventilators known as 
        iron lungs to breathe while many others were crippled and needed 
        crutches for mobility;
Whereas University of Pittsburgh faculty member Dr. Jonas Salk and his team of 
        researchers developed the first vaccine against polio;
Whereas in April 1955, at the University of Michigan's Rachkam Auditorium, Dr. 
        Francis announced the results of the most comprehensive field trial ever 
        conducted in the history of public health, involving 1,830,000 children 
        in 217 areas of the United States, Canada, and Finland, indicating the 
        vaccine was safe and effective;
Whereas the Salk polio vaccine was approved for widespread public use and the 
        incidence of polio in the United States fell by 85-90 percent during the 
        first 3 years of widespread use of Salk's polio vaccine (1955-1957);
Whereas the Salk polio vaccine developed at the University of Pittsburgh is 
        considered one of the most significant medical achievements of the 
        twentieth century;
Whereas the international immunization of children and young adults at that time 
        resulted in the worldwide eradication of polio by 1962 and since that 
        time has prevented any significant re-emergence of the disease;
Whereas in 1963 Dr. Salk founded the Jonas Salk Institute for Biological 
        Studies, an innovative center for medical and scientific research; and
Whereas Dr. Salk's last years were spent searching for a vaccine against AIDS: 
        Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
            (1) recognizes the University of Pittsburgh and the University of 
        Michigan on the fiftieth anniversary of the discovery and the 
        declaration that the Salk polio vaccine was potent, virtually 
        eliminating the disease and its harmful effects;
            (2) recognizes the pioneering achievement of Dr. Jonas Salk and his 
        team of researchers at the University of Pittsburgh in the development 
        of the Salk polio vaccine;
            (3) recognizes the unprecedented scope and magnitude of the field 
        trials conducted by Dr. Thomas Francis, Jr., and his team of more than 
        100 statisticians and epidemiologists at the University of Michigan; and
            (4) states its appreciation to--
                    (A) the University of Pittsburgh for the elimination of a 
                disease that caused countless deaths and disabling consequences;
                    (B) the members of Dr. Salk's research team;
                    (C) the individuals, a majority of whom were residents of 
                Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, who generously agreed to 
                participate in clinical trials to validate the efficacy of the 
                polio vaccine;
                    (D) the family members of Dr. Salk for their participation 
                in medical history;
                    (E) the University of Michigan for its efforts in proving 
                the Salk polio vaccine was safe and effective; and
                    (F) the members of Dr. Francis' team of statisticians and 
                epidemiologists.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
