
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 75 Engrossed in House (EH)]


                 In the House of Representatives, U.S.,

                                                     February 10, 2005.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for further consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 418) to establish and rapidly implement regulations for State 
driver's license and identification document security standards, to prevent 
terrorists from abusing the asylum laws of the United States, to unify 
terrorism-related grounds for inadmissibility and removal, and to ensure 
expeditious construction of the San Diego border fence. No further general 
debate shall be in order. The bill shall be considered for amendment under the 
five-minute rule. The amendment printed in part A of the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted in the 
House and in the Committee of the Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be 
considered as the original bill for the purpose of further amendment and shall 
be considered as read. No further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in 
order except those printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules. 
Each further amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, 
may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as 
read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such 
further amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill 
for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the 
House with such further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
