
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 364 Engrossed in House (EH)]


H. Res. 364

                 In the House of Representatives, U.S.,

                                                         July 18, 2005.
Whereas the Republic of India achieved its independence from the British Empire 
        on August 15, 1947, and has since that time maintained a democratic 
        system of government;
Whereas India has in recent years opened its economy to a considerable extent to 
        trade and investment and has liberalized its internal economic system;
Whereas India's relationship with the United States has deepened in past years 
        and encompasses cooperation on matters relating to international 
        security, political stability, world trade, technology, science, and 
        health;
Whereas India and Pakistan, neighbors who have fought bitter wars in past 
        decades, have increased their efforts to settle their differences by 
        peaceful means;
Whereas Americans of Indian origin have made critical contributions to the 
        culture and economy of the United States;
Whereas the Prime Minister of India, His Excellency Dr. Manmohan Singh, has, in 
        his previous capacity as Finance Minister, helped shape India's economic 
        policies to permit the growth of free markets, which has led to much 
        greater economic prosperity for many people in India and the creation of 
        a large middle class; and
Whereas Prime Minister Singh has accepted an invitation by the United States to 
        make an official visit to Washington, D.C.: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that the 
continuing improvement in relations between the United States and the Republic 
of India, exemplified by the current official visit of the Prime Minister of 
India, His Excellency Dr. Manmohan Singh, is to be commended, supported, and 
expanded in the interest of the people of India and the people of the United 
States.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
