
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 819 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.819

                       One Hundred Ninth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
             the third day of January, two thousand and six


                                 An Act



 To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to reallocate costs of the 
 Pactola Dam and Reservoir, South Dakota, to reflect increased demands 
       for municipal, industrial, and fish and wildlife purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Pactola Reservoir Reallocation 
Authorization Act of 2005''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
        (1) it is appropriate to reallocate the costs of the Pactola 
    Dam and Reservoir, South Dakota, to reflect increased demands for 
    municipal, industrial, and fish and wildlife purposes; and
        (2) section 302 of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
    (42 U.S.C. 7152) prohibits such a reallocation of costs without 
    congressional approval.

SEC. 3. REALLOCATION OF COSTS OF PACTOLA DAM AND RESERVOIR, SOUTH 
              DAKOTA.

    The Secretary of the Interior may, as provided in the contract of 
August 2001 entered into between Rapid City, South Dakota, and the 
Rapid Valley Conservancy District, reallocate, in a manner consistent 
with Federal reclamation law (the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, 
chapter 1093), and Acts supplemental to and amendatory of that Act (43 
U.S.C. 371 et seq.)), the construction costs of Pactola Dam and 
Reservoir, Rapid Valley Unit, Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program, South 
Dakota, from irrigation purposes to municipal, industrial, and fish and 
wildlife purposes.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
