
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 450 Engrossed in House (EH)]


H. Res. 450

                 In the House of Representatives, U.S.,

                                                    September 20, 2005.
Whereas the National Aeronautics and Space Administration was created in 1958 
        under President Eisenhower and has, since then, accomplished great 
        things in the fields of science, technology, aeronautics, and aerospace 
        exploration;
Whereas women have worked since the 1960's for the right to play a vital role in 
        NASA's missions in outer space;
Whereas after more than twenty years of waiting, the first American woman, Sally 
        Ride, flew in outer space in 1983 aboard the Space Shuttle Challenger;
Whereas in 1984, Kathryn Sullivan became the first American woman to perform a 
        space walk aboard the Space Shuttle Challenger during mission STS-41;
Whereas in 1986, Christa McAuliffe, who was to be the first teacher and civilian 
        in space after being selected from 11,000 applicants, and Mission 
        Specialist Judith Resnick, were killed aboard the space shuttle 
        Challenger just 73 seconds after lift-off during mission STS-51L;
Whereas in 1992, Mae Jemison became the first African-American woman to fly in 
        outer space aboard the Space Shuttle Endeavor during mission STS-47;
Whereas Shannon Lucid previously held the United States record for the amount of 
        time spent living and working in space on a single mission aboard the 
        Russian Mir space-station for over 6 months in 1996;
Whereas in 1999, Eileen Collins became the first woman to command a space 
        mission when Space Shuttle Columbia deployed the Chandra X-Ray 
        Observatory;
Whereas in 2003, Mission Specialists Kalpana Chawla and Laurel Clark were killed 
        aboard the Space Shuttle Columbia on reentry during mission STS-107;
Whereas we celebrate America's Return to Flight with Space Shuttle Discovery's 
        STS-114 mission, which Eileen Collins commanded and on which Wendy 
        Lawrence served as Mission Specialist; and
Whereas great strides have been made in the Space Shuttle and International 
        Space Station era to increase the number and prominence of women serving 
        in the NASA Astronaut Corp, thereby giving us hope for the future of 
        American women in space, including Ellen Baker, Yvonne Cagle, Tracy 
        Caldwell, Kalpana Chawla, Laurel B. Clark, Mary Cleave, Catherine 
        Coleman, Eileen Collins, Nancy J. Currie, Jan Davis, Bonnie Dunbar, Anna 
        Fisher, Linda Godwin, Susan J. Helms, Joan Higginbotham, Kathryn Hire, 
        Marsha Ivins, Mae C. Jemison, Tamara E. Jernigan, Janet Kavandi, Susan 
        L. Kilrain, Wendy Lawrence, Shannon Lucid, Sandra Magnus, Megan 
        McArthur, Pamela Melroy, Barbara Morgan, Lisa Nowak, Karen Nyberg, Ellen 
        Ochoa, Judith A. Resnik, Sally K. Ride, Patricia C. Hilliard Robertson, 
        Margaret Rhea Seddon, Heidemarie Sefanyshyn-Piper, Nicole Scott, Kathryn 
        C. Thornton, Janice Voss, Mary E. Weber, Peggy Whitson, Sunita Williams, 
        and Stephanie Wilson: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
            (1) recognizes Space Shuttle Commander Eileen Collins, Mission 
        Specialist Wendy Lawrence, and the contributions of all other women who 
        have worked with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        following the successful mission of the Space Shuttle Discovery on STS-
        114; and
            (2) celebrates the many achievements of women in the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration and congratulates Commander Collins 
        and the rest of her crew.



            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
