
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 516 Engrossed in House (EH)]


                 In the House of Representatives, U.S.,

                                                    September 10, 1998.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 1(b) of rule XXIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 3892) to amend the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to 
establish a program to help children and youth learn English, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce. After general debate the bill shall be considered 
for amendment under the five-minute rule for a period not to exceed three hours 
and, thereafter, as provided in section 2 of this resolution. It shall be in 
order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the 
five-minute rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the 
Committee on Education and the Workforce now printed in the bill. The committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. Before 
consideration of any other amendment it shall be in order to consider the 
amendment printed in the Congressional Record and numbered 1 pursuant to clause 
6 of rule XXIII, if offered by Representative Riggs of California or his 
designee. That amendment shall be considered as read, be debatable for 10 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall 
not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division 
of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. If that amendment 
is adopted, the provisions of the amendment in the nature of a substitute as 
then perfected shall be considered as original text for the purpose of further 
amendment under the five-minute rule. After disposition of the amendment 
numbered 1, it shall be in order to consider the amendment printed in the 
Congressional Record and numbered 2 pursuant to clause 6 of rule XXIII, if 
offered by Representative Riggs of California or his designee, which shall be 
considered as read. That amendment and all amendments thereto shall be debatable 
for 30 minutes equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent. 
During consideration of the bill for further amendment, the Chairman of the 
Committee of the Whole may accord priority in recognition on the basis of 
whether the Member offering an amendment has caused it to be printed in the 
portion of the Congressional Record designated for that purpose in clause 6 of 
rule XXIII. Amendments so printed shall be considered as read. The Chairman of 
the Committee of the Whole may: (1) postpone until a time during further 
consideration in the Committee of the Whole a request for a recorded vote on any 
amendment; and (2) reduce to five minutes the minimum time for electronic voting 
on any postponed question that follows another electronic vote without 
intervening business, provided that the minimum time for electronic voting on 
the first in any series of questions shall be 15 minutes. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the 
bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may 
demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of 
the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in 
order as original text. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2. After consideration of the bill for amendment under the five-minute 
rule for three hours pursuant to the first section of this resolution, no 
further amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order 
as original text shall be in order except those printed in the portion of the 
Congressional Record designated for that purpose in clause 6 of rule XXIII. Each 
further amendment may be offered only by the Member who caused it to be printed 
or a designee and shall be considered as read. Each further amendment and all 
amendments thereto shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
