
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1413 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1413

    To provide a framework for consideration by the legislative and 
          executive branches of unilateral economic sanctions.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            November 7, 1997

Mr. Lugar (for himself, Mr. Hagel, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Thomas, Mr. Grams, 
 Mr. Kerrey, Mrs. Feinstein, and Mr. Chafee) introduced the following 
  bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Foreign 
                               Relations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To provide a framework for consideration by the legislative and 
          executive branches of unilateral economic sanctions.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Enhancement of Trade, Security, and 
Human Rights through Sanctions Reform Act''.

SEC. 2. PURPOSE.

    It is the purpose of this Act to establish an effective framework 
for consideration by the legislative and executive branches of 
unilateral economic sanctions.

SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) to pursue United States interests through vigorous and 
        effective diplomatic, political, commercial, charitable, 
        educational, cultural, and strategic engagement with other 
        countries, while recognizing that the national security 
        interests of the United States may sometimes require the 
        imposition of economic sanctions on other countries;
            (2) to foster multilateral cooperation on vital matters of 
        United States foreign policy, including promoting human rights 
        and democracy, combating international terrorism, proliferation 
        of weapons of mass destruction, and international narcotics 
        trafficking, and ensuring adequate environmental protection;
            (3) to promote United States economic growth and job 
        creation by expanding exports of goods, services, and 
        agricultural commodities, and by encouraging investment that 
        supports the sale abroad of products and services of the United 
        States;
            (4) to maintain the reputation of United States businesses 
        and farmers as reliable suppliers to international customers of 
        quality products and services, including United States 
        manufactures, technology products, financial services, and 
        agricultural commodities;
            (5) to avoid the use of restrictions on exports of 
        agricultural commodities as a foreign policy weapon;
            (6) to oppose policies of other countries designed to 
        discourage economic interaction with countries friendly to the 
        United States or with any United States national, and to avoid 
        use of such measures as instruments of United States foreign 
        policy; and
            (7) when economic sanctions are necessary--
                    (A) to target them as narrowly as possible on those 
                foreign governments, entities, and officials that are 
                responsible for the conduct being targeted, thereby 
                minimizing unnecessary or disproportionate harm to 
                individuals who are not responsible for such conduct; 
                and
                    (B) to the extent feasible, to avoid any adverse 
                impact of economic sanctions on the humanitarian 
                activities of United States and foreign nongovernmental 
                organizations in a country against which sanctions are 
                imposed.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this Act:
            (1) Unilateral economic sanction.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``unilateral economic 
                sanction'' means any restriction or condition on 
                economic activity with respect to a foreign country or 
                foreign entity that is imposed by the United States for 
                reasons of foreign policy or national security, 
                including any of the measures described in subparagraph 
                (B), except in a case in which the United States 
                imposes the measure pursuant to a multilateral regime 
                and the other members of that regime have agreed to 
                impose substantially equivalent measures.
                    (B) Particular measures.--The measures referred to 
                in subparagraph (A) are the following:
                            (i) The suspension, restriction, or 
                        prohibition of exports or imports of any 
                        product, technology, or service to or from a 
                        foreign country or entity.
                            (ii) The suspension of, or any restriction 
                        or prohibition on, financial transactions with 
                        a foreign country or entity.
                            (iii) The suspension of, or any restriction 
                        or prohibition on, direct or indirect 
                        investment in or from a foreign country or 
                        entity.
                            (iv) The imposition of increased tariffs 
                        on, or other restrictions on imports of, 
                        products of a foreign country or entity, 
                        including the denial, revocation, or 
                        conditioning of nondiscriminatory (most-
                        favored-nation) trade treatment.
                            (v) The suspension of, or any restriction 
                        or prohibition on--
                                    (I) the authority of the Export-
                                Import Bank of the United States to 
                                give approval to the issuance of any 
                                guarantee, insurance, or extension of 
                                credit in connection with the export of 
                                goods or services to a foreign country 
                                or entity;
                                    (II) the authority of the Trade and 
                                Development Agency to provide 
                                assistance in connection with projects 
                                in a foreign country or in which a 
                                particular foreign entity participates; 
                                or
                                    (III) the authority of the Overseas 
                                Private Investment Corporation to 
provide insurance, reinsurance, financing, or conduct other activities 
in connection with projects in a foreign country or in which a 
particular foreign entity participates.
                            (vi) A requirement that the United States 
                        representative to an international financial 
                        institution vote against any loan or other 
                        utilization of funds to, for, or in a foreign 
                        country or particular foreign entity.
                            (vii) A measure imposing any restriction or 
                        condition on economic activity on any foreign 
                        government or entity on the ground that such 
                        government or entity does business in or with a 
                        foreign country.
                            (viii) A measure imposing any restriction 
                        or condition on economic activity on any person 
                        that is a national of a foreign country, or on 
                        any government or other entity of a foreign 
                        country, on the ground that the government of 
                        that country has not taken measures in 
                        cooperation with, or similar to, sanctions 
                        imposed by the United States on a third 
                        country.
                            (ix) The suspension of, or any restriction 
                        or prohibition on, travel rights or air 
                        transportation to or from a foreign country.
                            (x) Any restriction on the filing or 
                        maintenance in a foreign country of any 
                        proprietary interest in intellectual property 
                        rights (including patents, copyrights, and 
                        trademarks), including payment of patent 
                        maintenance fees.
                    (C) Multilateral regime.--As used in this 
                paragraph, the term ``multilateral regime'' means an 
                agreement, arrangement, or obligation under which the 
                United States cooperates with other countries in 
                restricting commerce for reasons of foreign policy or 
                national security, including--
                            (i) obligations under resolutions of the 
                        United Nations;
                            (ii) nonproliferation and export control 
                        arrangements, such as the Australia Group, the 
                        Nuclear Supplier's Group, the Missile 
                        Technology Control Regime, and the Wassenaar 
                        Arrangement;
                            (iii) treaty obligations, such as under the 
                        Chemical Weapons Convention, the Treaty on the 
                        Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and the 
                        Biological Weapons Convention; and
                            (iv) agreements concerning protection of 
                        the environment, such as the International 
                        Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic 
                        Tunas, the Declaration of Panama referred to in 
                        section 2(a)(1) of the International Dolphin 
                        Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 1361 note), the 
                        Convention on International Trade in Endangered 
                        Species, the Montreal Protocol on Substances 
                        that Deplete the Ozone Layer, and the Basel 
                        Convention on the Control of Transboundary 
                        Movements of Hazardous Wastes.
                    (D) Financial transaction.--As used in this 
                paragraph, the term ``financial transaction'' has the 
                meaning given that term in section 1956(c)(4) of title 
                18, United States Code.
                    (E) Investment.--As used in this paragraph, the 
                term ``investment'' means any contribution or 
                commitment of funds, commodities, services, patents, or 
                other forms of intellectual property, processes, or 
                techniques, including--
                            (i) a loan or loans;
                            (ii) the purchase of a share of ownership;
                            (iii) participation in royalties, earnings, 
                        or profits; and
                            (iv) the furnishing or commodities or 
                        services pursuant to a lease or other contract.
                    (F) Exclusions.--The term ``unilateral economic 
                sanction'' does not include--
                            (i) any measure imposed to remedy unfair 
                        trade practices or to enforce United States 
                        rights under a trade agreement, including under 
                        section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, title 
                        VII of that Act, title III of the Trade Act of 
                        1974, sections 1374 and 1377 of the Omnibus 
                        Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (19 
                        U.S.C. 3103 and 3106), and section 3 of the Act 
                        of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10b-1);
                            (ii) any measure imposed to remedy market 
                        disruption or to respond to injury to a 
                        domestic industry for which increased imports 
are a substantial cause or threat thereof, including remedies under 
sections 201 and 406 of the Trade Act of 1974, and textile import 
restrictions (including those imposed under section 204 of the 
Agricultural Act of 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1784));
                            (iii) any action taken under title IV of 
                        the Trade Act of 1974, including the enactment 
                        of a joint resolution under section 402(d)(2) 
                        of that Act;
                            (iv) any measure imposed to restrict 
                        imports of agricultural commodities to protect 
                        food safety or to ensure the orderly marketing 
                        of commodities in the United States, including 
                        actions taken under section 22 of the 
                        Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 U.S.C. 624);
                            (v) any measure imposed to restrict imports 
                        of any other products in order to protect 
                        domestic health or safety;
                            (vi) any measure authorized by, or imposed 
                        under, a multilateral or bilateral trade 
                        agreement to which the United States is a 
                        signatory, including the Uruguay Round 
                        Agreements, the North American Free Trade 
                        Agreement, the United States-Israel Free Trade 
                        Agreement, and the United States-Canada Free 
                        Trade Agreement; and
                            (vii) any export control imposed on any 
                        item on the United States Munitions List.
            (2) National emergency.--The term ``national emergency'' 
        means any unusual or extraordinary threat, which has its source 
        in whole or substantial part outside the United States, to the 
        national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United 
        States.
            (3) Agricultural commodity.--The term ``agricultural 
        commodity'' has the meaning given that term in section 102(1) 
        of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602(1)).
            (4) Appropriate committees.--The term ``appropriate 
        committees'' means the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee 
        on International Relations, the Committee on Ways and Means, 
        and the Committee on Banking and Financial Services of the 
        House of Representatives, and the Committee on Agriculture, 
        Nutrition, and Forestry, the Committee on Finance, and the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
            (5) Contract sanctity.--The term ``contract sanctity'', 
        with respect to a unilateral economic sanction, refers to the 
        inapplicability of the sanction to--
                    (A) a contract or agreement entered into before the 
                sanction is imposed, or to a valid export license or 
                other authorization to export; and
                    (B) actions taken to enforce the right to maintain 
                intellectual property rights, in the foreign country 
                against which the sanction is imposed, which existed 
                before the imposition of the sanction.

SEC. 5. GUIDELINES FOR UNILATERAL ECONOMIC SANCTIONS LEGISLATION.

    Any bill or joint resolution that imposes any unilateral economic 
sanction, or authorizes the imposition of any unilateral economic 
sanction by the executive branch, and is considered by the House of 
Representatives or the Senate, should--
            (1) state the foreign policy or national security objective 
        or objectives of the United States that the economic sanction 
        is intended to achieve;
            (2) provide that the economic sanction terminate 2 years 
        after it is imposed, unless specifically reauthorized by 
        Congress;
            (3) provide for contract sanctity;
            (4) provide authority for the President both to adjust the 
        timing and scope of the sanction and to waive the sanction, if 
        the President determines it is in the national interest to do 
        so;
            (5)(A) target the sanction as narrowly as possible on 
        foreign governments, entities, and officials that are 
        responsible for the conduct being targeted; and
            (B) seek to minimize any adverse impact on the humanitarian 
        activities of United States and foreign nongovernmental 
        organizations in any country against which the sanction may be 
        imposed; and
            (6) provide, to the extent that the Secretary of 
        Agriculture or the Congressional Budget Office finds that--
                    (A) the proposed sanction is likely to restrict 
                exports of any agricultural commodity or is likely to 
                result in retaliation against exports of any 
                agricultural commodity from the United States, and
                    (B) the sanction is proposed to be imposed, or is 
                likely to be imposed, on a country or countries that 
                constituted, in the preceding calendar year, the market 
                for more than 3 percent of all export sales from the 
                United States of an agricultural commodity,
        that the Secretary of Agriculture expand agricultural export 
        assistance under United States market development, food 
        assistance, or export promotion programs to offset the likely 
        damage to incomes of producers of the affected agricultural 
        commodity or commodities, to the maximum extent permitted by 
        the obligations of the United States under the Agreement on 
        Agriculture referred to in section 101(d)(2) of the Uruguay 
        Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 3511(d)(2)).

SEC. 6. REQUIREMENTS FOR BILL OR JOINT RESOLUTION.

    (a) Public Comment.--Before considering a bill or joint resolution 
that imposes any unilateral economic sanction, or authorizes the 
imposition of any unilateral economic sanction by the executive branch, 
the committee of primary jurisdiction shall publish a notice which 
provides an opportunity for interested members of the public to submit 
comments to the committee on the proposed sanction.
    (b) When Reports Requested.--The committee of primary jurisdiction 
that orders reported a bill or joint resolution described in section 5 
shall timely request from the President and the Secretary of 
Agriculture the reports identified in subsection (c). Each such report 
that has been timely submitted prior to the filing of the committee 
report accompanying the bill or joint resolution shall be included in 
the committee report. The committee report shall also contain, if the 
bill or joint resolution does not meet any of the guidelines specified 
in paragraphs (1) through (6) of section 5, an explanation of why it 
does not.
    (c) Reports.--
            (1) Report by the president.--The President's report to 
        Congress under subsection (b) shall contain--
                    (A) an assessment of--
                            (i) the likelihood that the proposed 
                        unilateral economic sanction will achieve its 
                        stated objective within a reasonable period of 
                        time; and
                            (ii) the impact of the proposed unilateral 
                        economic sanction on--
                                    (I) humanitarian conditions, 
                                including the impact on conditions in 
                                any specific countries on which the 
                                sanction is proposed to be or may be 
                                imposed;
                                    (II) humanitarian activities of 
                                United States and foreign 
                                nongovernmental organizations;
                                    (III) relations with United States 
                                allies;
                                    (IV) other United States national 
                                security and foreign policy interests; 
                                and
                                    (V) countries and entities other 
                                than those on which the sanction is 
                                proposed to be or may be imposed;
                    (B) a description and assessment of--
                            (i) diplomatic and other steps the United 
                        States has taken to accomplish the intended 
                        objectives of the unilateral sanction 
                        legislation;
                            (ii) the likelihood of multilateral 
                        adoption of comparable measures;
                            (iii) comparable measures undertaken by 
                        other countries;
                            (iv) alternative measures to promote the 
                        same objectives, and an assessment of their 
                        potential effectiveness;
                            (v) any obligations of the United States 
                        under international treaties or trade 
                        agreements with which the proposed sanction may 
                        conflict;
                            (vi) the likelihood that the proposed 
                        sanction will lead to retaliation against 
                        United States interests, including agricultural 
                        interests; and
                            (vii) whether the achievement of the 
                        objectives of the proposed sanction outweighs 
                        any likely costs to United States foreign 
                        policy, national security, economic, and 
                        humanitarian interests, including any potential 
                        harm to United States business, agriculture, 
                        and consumers, and any potential harm to the 
                        international reputation of the United States 
                        as a reliable supplier of products, technology, 
                        agricultural commodities, and services.
            (2) Report by the secretary of agriculture.--The Secretary 
        of Agriculture shall submit to the appropriate committees a 
        report which shall contain an assessment of--
                    (A) the extent to which any country or countries 
                proposed to be sanctioned or likely to be sanctioned 
                are markets that accounted for, in the preceding 
                calendar year, more than 3 percent of all export sales 
                from the United States of any agricultural commodity;
                    (B) the likelihood that exports of agricultural 
                commodities from the United States will be affected by 
                the proposed sanction or by retaliation by any country 
                proposed to be sanctioned or likely to be sanctioned, 
                and specific commodities which are most likely to be 
                affected;
                    (C) the likely effect on incomes of producers of 
                the specific commodities identified by the Secretary;
                    (D) the extent to which the proposed sanction would 
                permit foreign suppliers to replace United States 
                suppliers; and
                    (E) the likely effect of the proposed sanction on 
                the reputation of United States farmers as reliable 
                suppliers of agricultural commodities in general, and 
                of the specific commodities identified by the 
                Secretary.
            (3) Federal private sector mandate.--
                    (A) In general.--Any bill or joint resolution that 
                imposes any unilateral economic sanction described in 
                section 5 shall be considered to include a Federal 
                private sector mandate for purposes of part B of title 
                IV of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
                    (B) Report by the congressional budget office.--The 
                report by the Congressional Budget Office pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) shall include an assessment of the 
                likely short-term and long-term costs of the proposed 
                sanction to the United States economy, including the 
                potential impact on United States trade performance, 
                employment, and growth, the international reputation of 
                the United States as a reliable supplier of products, 
                agricultural commodities, technology, and services, and 
                the economic well-being and international competitive 
                position of United States industries, firms, workers, 
                farmers, and communities.

SEC. 7. REQUIREMENTS FOR EXECUTIVE ACTION.

    (a) In General.--The President may implement a unilateral economic 
sanction under any provision of law not less than 60 days after 
announcing his intention to do so.
    (b) Consultation.--The President shall consult with the appropriate 
committees regarding the proposed unilateral economic sanction, 
including consultations regarding efforts to achieve or increase 
multilateral cooperation on the issues or problems prompting the 
proposed sanction.
    (c) Public Hearings; Record.--The President shall publish a notice 
in the Federal Register of the opportunity for interested persons to 
submit comments on the proposed unilateral economic sanction.
    (d) Guidelines for Executive Branch Sanctions.--Any unilateral 
economic sanction imposed by the President--
            (1) shall--
                    (A) include a clear finding that the sanction is 
                likely to achieve a specific United States foreign 
                policy or national security objective within a 
                reasonable period of time, which shall be specified, 
                and that the achievement of the objectives of the 
                sanction outweighs any costs to United States national 
                interests;
                    (B) provide for contract sanctity;
                    (C) terminate not later than 2 years after the 
                sanction is imposed, unless specifically extended by 
                the President in accordance with the procedures of this 
                section;
                    (D)(i) be targeted as narrowly as possible on 
                foreign governments, entities, and officials that are 
                responsible for the conduct being targeted; and
                    (ii) seek to minimize any adverse impact on the 
                humanitarian activities of United States and foreign 
                nongovernmental organizations in a country against 
                which the sanction may be imposed; and
            (2) should provide, to the extent that the Secretary of 
        Agriculture finds that--
                    (A) a unilateral economic sanction is likely to 
                restrict exports of any agricultural commodity from the 
                United States or is likely to risk retaliation against 
                exports of any agricultural commodity from the United 
                States, and
                    (B) the sanction is proposed to be imposed, or is 
                likely to be imposed, on a country or countries that 
                constituted, in the preceding calendar year, the market 
                for more than 3 percent of all export sales from the 
                United States of an agricultural commodity,
        that the Secretary of Agriculture expand agricultural export 
        assistance under United States market development, food 
        assistance, or export promotion programs to offset the likely 
        damage to incomes of producers of the affected agricultural 
        commodity or commodities, to the maximum extent permitted by 
        law and by the obligations of the United States under the 
        Agreement on Agriculture referred to in section 101(d)(2) of 
        the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 3511(d)(2)).
    (e) Report by the President.--Prior to imposing any unilateral 
economic sanction, the President shall provide a report to the 
appropriate committees on the proposed sanction. The report shall 
include the report of the International Trade Commission under 
subsection (g) (if timely submitted prior to the filing of the report). 
The President's report shall contain the following:
            (1) An explanation of the foreign policy or national 
        security objective or objectives intended to be achieved 
        through the proposed sanction.
            (2) An assessment of--
                    (A) the likelihood that the proposed unilateral 
                economic sanction will achieve its stated objectives 
                within the stated period of time; and
                    (B) the impact of the proposed unilateral economic 
                sanction on--
                            (i) humanitarian conditions, including the 
                        impact on conditions in any specific countries 
                        on which the sanctions are proposed to be 
                        imposed;
                            (ii) humanitarian activities of United 
                        States and foreign nongovernmental 
                        organizations;
                            (iii) relations with United States allies;
                            (iv) other United States national security 
                        and foreign policy interests; and
                            (v) countries and entities other than those 
                        on which the sanction is proposed to be 
                        imposed.
            (3) A description and assessment of--
                    (A) diplomatic and other steps the United States 
                has taken to accomplish the intended objectives of the 
                proposed sanction;
                    (B) the likelihood of multilateral adoption of 
                comparable measures;
                    (C) comparable measures undertaken by other 
                countries;
                    (D) alternative measures to promote the same 
                objectives, and an assessment of their potential 
                effectiveness;
                    (E) any obligations of the United States under 
                international treaties or trade agreements with which 
                the proposed sanction may conflict;
                    (F) the likelihood that the proposed sanction will 
                lead to retaliation against United States interests, 
                including agricultural interests; and
                    (G) whether the achievement of the objectives of 
                the proposed sanction outweighs any likely costs to 
                United States foreign policy, national security, 
                economic, and humanitarian interests, including any 
                potential harm to United States business, agriculture, 
                and consumers, and any potential harm to the 
                international reputation of the United States as a 
                reliable supplier of products, technology, agricultural 
                commodities, and services.
    (f) Report by the Secretary of Agriculture.--Prior to the 
imposition of a unilateral economic sanction by the President, the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to the appropriate committees a 
report which shall contain an assessment of--
            (1) the extent to which any country or countries proposed 
        to be sanctioned are markets that accounted for, in the 
        preceding calendar year, more than 3 percent of all export 
        sales from the United States of any agricultural commodity;
            (2) the likelihood that exports of agricultural commodities 
        from the United States will be affected by the proposed 
        sanction or by retaliation by any country proposed to be 
        sanctioned, including specific commodities which are most 
        likely to be affected;
            (3) the likely effect on incomes of producers of the 
        specific commodities identified by the Secretary;
            (4) the extent to which the proposed sanction would permit 
        foreign suppliers to replace United States suppliers; and
            (5) the likely effect of the prosed sanction on the 
        reputation of United States farmers as reliable suppliers of 
        agricultural commodities in general, and of the specific 
        commodities identified by the Secretary.
    (g) Report by the United States International Trade Commission.--
Before imposing a unilateral economic sanction, the President shall 
make a timely request to the United States International Trade 
Commission for a report on the likely short-term and long-term costs of 
the proposed sanction to the United States economy, including the 
potential impact on United States trade performance, employment, and 
growth, the international reputation of the United States as a reliable 
supplier of products, agricultural commodities, technology, and 
services, and the economic well-being and international competitive 
position of United States industries, firms, workers, farmers, and 
communities.
    (h) Waiver in Case of National Emergency.--The President may waive 
any of the requirements of subsections (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), and 
(g), in the event that the President determines that there exists a 
national emergency that requires the exercise of the waiver. In the 
event of such a waiver, the requirements waived shall be met during the 
60-day period immediately following the imposition of the unilateral 
economic sanction, and the sanction shall terminate 90 days after being 
imposed unless such requirements are met. The President may waive any 
of the requirements of paragraphs (1)(B), (1)(D), and (2) of subsection 
(d) in the event that the President determines that the unilateral 
economic sanction is related to actual or imminent armed conflict 
involving the United States.
    (i) Sanctions Review Committee.--The President shall establish a 
Sanctions Review Committee to coordinate United States policy regarding 
unilateral economic sanctions and to provide appropriate 
recommendations to the President prior to decisions regarding such 
sanctions. The Committee shall be comprised of--
            (1) the Secretary of State;
            (2) the Secretary of the Treasury;
            (3) the Secretary of Defense;
            (4) the Secretary of Agriculture;
            (5) the Secretary of Commerce;
            (6) the Secretary of Energy;
            (7) the United States Trade Representative;
            (8) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
            (9) the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
            (10) the Assistant to the President for National Security 
        Affairs; and
            (11) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.
    (j) Inapplicability of Other Provisions.--This section applies 
notwithstanding any other provision of law.

SEC. 8. ANNUAL REPORTS.

    (a) Annual Report.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the President shall 
submit to the appropriate committees a report detailing with respect to 
each country or entity against which a unilateral economic sanction has 
been imposed--
            (1) the extent to which the sanction has achieved foreign 
        policy or national security objectives of the United States 
        with respect to that country or entity;
            (2) the extent to which the sanction has harmed 
        humanitarian interests in that country, the country in which 
        that entity is located, or in other countries; and
            (3) the impact of the sanction on other national security 
        and foreign policy interests of the United States, including 
        relations with countries friendly to the United States, and on 
        the United States economy.
    (b) Report by the United States International Trade Commission.--
Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and 
annually thereafter, the United States International Trade Commission 
shall report to the appropriate committees on the costs, individually 
and in the aggregate, of all unilateral economic sanctions in effect 
under United States law, regulation, or Executive order. The 
calculation of such costs shall include an assessment of the impact of 
such measures on the international reputation of the United States as a 
reliable supplier of products, agricultural commodities, technology, 
and services.
                                 <all>
