
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 378 Engrossed in House (EH)]


                 In the House of Representatives, U.S.,

                                                         March 5, 1998.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 1(b) of rule XXIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 3130) to provide for an alternative penalty procedure for States that 
fail to meet Federal child support data processing requirements, to reform 
Federal incentive payments for effective child support performance, and to 
provide for a more flexible penalty procedure for States that violate 
interjurisdictional adoption requirements. The first reading of the bill shall 
be dispensed with. Points of order against consideration of the bill for failure 
to comply with section 303(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Ways and Means. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to 
consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
Ways and Means now printed in the bill. The committee amendment in the nature of 
a substitute shall be considered as read. Points of order against the committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute for failure to comply with section 
303(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 are waived. No amendment shall be 
in order unless printed in the portion of the Congressional Record designated 
for that purpose in clause 6 of rule XXIII. Points of order against the 
amendment printed in the Congressional Record and numbered 2 pursuant to clause 
6 of rule XXIII for failure to comply with clause 7 of rule XVI are waived. The 
Chairman of the Committee of the Whole may: (1) postpone until a time during 
further consideration in the Committee of the Whole a request for a recorded 
vote on any amendment; and (2) reduce to five minutes the minimum time for 
electronic voting on any postponed question that follows another electronic vote 
without intervening business, provided that the minimum time for electronic 
voting on the first in any series of questions shall be fifteen minutes. At the 
conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise 
and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. 
Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in 
the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the committee amendment in the 
nature of a substitute. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
