
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 419 Engrossed in House (EH)]


                 In the House of Representatives, U.S.,

                                                           May 6, 1998.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 1(b) of rule XXIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1872) to amend the Communications Satellite Act of 1962 to promote 
competition and privatization in satellite communications, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Commerce. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to consider as an original bill for 
the purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule the amendment in the nature 
of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Commerce now printed in the 
bill. The committee amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered 
as read. No amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute 
shall be in order unless printed in the portion of the Congressional Record 
designated for that purpose in clause 6 of rule XXIII. Printed amendments shall 
be considered as read. The Chairman of the Committee of the Whole may: (1) 
postpone until a time during further consideration in the Committee of the Whole 
a request for a recorded vote on any amendment; and (2) reduce to five minutes 
the minimum time for electronic voting on any postponed question that follows 
another electronic vote without intervening business, provided that the minimum 
time for electronic voting on the first in any series of questions shall be 15 
minutes. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as 
may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
