
[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 573 Engrossed in House (EH)]


                 In the House of Representatives, U.S.,

                                                       October 7, 1998.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 1(b) of the rule XXIII, declare the House resolved into 
the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of 
the bill (H.R. 4570) to provide for certain boundary adjustments and conveyances 
involving public lands, to establish and improve the management of certain 
heritage areas, historic areas, National Parks, wild and scenic rivers, and 
national trails, to protect communities by reducing hazardous fuels levels on 
public lands, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Resources. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule and shall be 
considered as read. No amendment to the bill shall be in order except those 
specified in section 2 of this resolution. Each amendment may be offered only in 
the order specified, may be offered only by a Member specified or his designee, 
shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified equally 
divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against the 
first amendment specified in section 2 are waived. The Chairman of the Committee 
of the Whole may: (1) postpone until a time during further consideration in the 
Committee of the Whole a request for a recorded vote on any amendment; and (2) 
reduce to five minutes the minimum time for electronic voting on any postponed 
question that follows another electronic vote without intervening business, 
provided that the minimum time for electronic voting on the first in any series 
of questions shall be 15 minutes. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill 
for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with 
such amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with our without 
instructions.
    Sec. 2. The amendments described in the first section of this resolution are 
as follows:
            (1) the amendments by Representative Hansen of Utah printed in the 
        Congressional Record and numbered 1 pursuant to clause 6 of rule XXIII, 
        which shall be debatable for twenty minutes; and
            (2) an amendment by Representative Miller of California if printed 
        in the portion of the Congressional Record designated for that purpose 
        in clause 6 of rule XXIII on October 5, 1998, which shall be debatable 
        for one hour.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
